REUTERS/Sean Davey John Young, general manager of the emergency response division of the Australian Maritime Safety Authority (AMSA), answers a question as he stands in front of a diagram showing the search area for Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 in the southern Indian Ocean, during a briefing in Canberra March 20, 2014. Two objects that could be debris from the missing Malaysia Airlines jet have been found 1,550 miles off the coast of Australia in the Indian Ocean. Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott made the announcement at the start of Question Time in the House of Representatives. The potential debris was identified from satellite imagery. "Following specialist analysis of this satellite imagery, two possible objects related to the search have been identified," Abbott said. A P-3 Orion patrol aircraft has been diverted to the area and three more are on their way. Ships and helicopters from the Malaysian Navy are also being sent to the site to aid in the search, according to CNN. Abbott said the objects will be difficult to find and might not be related to the jet, which has been missing for more than 12 days with 239 people on board. ABC correspondent David Wright, who is on board one of the planes that has been sent out to search for the missing Malaysia jet, said the aircraft's radar is getting "hits of significant size" that all indicate "something is down there." Further images of the supposed debris are expected to come in from commercial satellites, Australian Maritime Safety Authority general manager John Young said during a press conference. The objects are indistinct in the current imagery, Young said. He noted that the objects are "of reasonable size" and that the largest piece is about 78 feet long. ABC foreign editor Jon Williams put this new development into perspective: Cautionary tale from @SteveGanyard. Air France wreckage spotted 5 days after crashed in Atlantic. Took 2 years to recover black box. #MH370 Here's the full statement that Young released to the media: The Australian Maritime Safety Authority is coordinating the search for the missing Malaysia Airlines aircraft, with assistance from the Australian Defence Force, the New Zealand Air Force and the United States Navy. AMSA’s Rescue Coordination Centre Australia has received satellite imagery of objects possibly related to the search for the missing aircraft, flight MH370. RCC Australia received an expert assessment of commercial satellite imagery on Thursday. The images were captured by satellite. They may not be related to the aircraft. The assessment of these images was provided by the Australian Geospatial-Intelligence Organisation as a possible indication of debris south of the search area that has been the focus of the search operation. The imagery is in the vicinity of the search area defined and searched in the past two days. Four aircraft have been reoriented to the area 2500 kilometres south-west of Perth as a result of this information. A Royal Australian Air Force Orion aircraft arrived in the area about 1.50pm. A further three aircraft have been tasked by RCC Australia to the area later today, including a Royal New Zealand Air Force Orion and United States Navy P8 Poseidon aircraft. The Poseidon aircraft is expected to arrive at 3pm. The second RAAF Orion is expected to depart RAAF Base Pearce at 6pm. The New Zealand Orion is due to depart at 8pm. A RAAF C-130 Hercules aircraft has been tasked by RCC Australia to drop datum marker buoys. These marker buoys assist RCC Australia by providing information about water movement to assist in drift modelling. They will provide an ongoing reference point if the task of relocating the objects becomes protracted. A merchant ship that responded to a shipping broadcast issued by RCC Australia on Monday is expected to arrive in the area about 6pm. Royal Australian Navy ship HMAS Success is en route to the area but is some days away from this area. She is well equipped to recover any objects located and proven to be from MH370. The focus for AMSA is to continue the search operation, with all available assets. The assets are searching for anything signs of the missing aircraft. Weather conditions are moderate in the Southern Indian Ocean where the search is taking place. Poor visibility has been reported. AMSA continues to hold grave concerns for the passengers and crew on board. Australia released this map of the search area: REUTERS/Sean DaveyA diagram showing the search area for Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 in the southern Indian Ocean is seen during a briefing by John Young, general manager of the emergency response division of the Australian Maritime Safety Authority (AMSA), in Canberra March 20, 2014. Flight MH370 has been missing since it seemingly vanished from its flight path March 8 en route to Beijing from Malaysia. After extensive search efforts involving several countries, the investigation has centered around the possibility the plane was hijacked. Authorities identified two potential flight corridors the plane may have taken after it was diverted from its intended route. Australia has been leading search efforts in the Indian Ocean. The other corridor would have taken the plane north west to Asia. Investigations turned to the pilots, crew and passengers as it became increasingly unlikely the disappearance was the result of an aviation accident. This week it was revealed a flight computer in the cockpit was manually programmed to take the plane off course. Malaysian officials recently refuted claims the jet had been seen by residents over the Maldives, a remote island nation in the Indian Ocean. Getty ImagesA search is under way for a missing Malaysian Airlines jet possibly lost off the coast of Western Australia. FREE AppDownload
CNBC / Deirdre Wang MorrisChina's yuan has weakened to a level that has some folks sweating. The offshore yuan (CNH) exchange rate has fallen to 6.20 per dollar. This comes days after policymakers announced that it would allow the yuan to swing more freely each day. The yuan has only weakened since the announcement. As you can see in the chart to the right, it take increasing amounts of yuan to get a dollar. 6.20 is a particularly worrisome level for the $300 billion structured financial products market. "For CNH, the 6.15-6.20 zone is critical for structured products, above which a topside move could become non-linear," warned Morgan Stanley's Geoffrey Kendrick in a note to clients on Sunday. Morgan StanleySo, what does this mean in English? Take a glance at Kendrick's chart on the right. It illustrates an example of a payoff schedule for the parties involved in these structured products. As long as the CNH stays between that 6.15-6.20 range, neither party is getting crushed. But once you get to that 6.20 level, one party will have to start paying its counterparty. In a March 14 note, Kendrick estimated there were around $150 billion worth of such contracts outstanding. Morgan Stanley"Taking that as a base case, we can then estimate the size of potential losses to holders of these products if USD/CNH keeps trading higher," he wrote. "In round numbers, we estimate that for every 0.1 move in USD/CNH above the average EKI (which we have assumed here is 6.20), corporates would lose US$200 million per month. The real pain comes if USD/CNH stays above this level, as these losses would accrue every month until the contract expires. Given contracts are 24 months in tenor, this implies around US$4.8 billion in total losses for every 0.1 above the average EKI." EKI is short for "European Knock-in," which Kendrick says is the range 6.15 and 6.20 CNH per dollar. Kendrick charted the potential losses for these products in the bar chart above. These are not small amounts of money being lost. FREE AppDownload
I took a look at the last decade of Manhattan sales activity and broke out a bunch of neighborhoods and property types to compare their changes in average square footage from 2004 to 2013. I looked at the annual sales activity for both years and presented the percent change in the table below. Takeaway Rising costs over the decade have prompted small apartment sales at higher prices. New development activity that dominated the market in the middle of the last decade influenced sizes to shrink. This is distinctly different than the discussion about the shift in the mix towards larger apartments – ie more bedrooms. Miller Samuel This article originally appeared at Miller Samuel Inc..  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Library of CongressEdison Electric plant [Detroit Edison Company], Detroit, Mich. Between 1900-1920A world with widely available clean energy is no longer part of some far-off future. Long dismissed as too expensive, too intermittent, or both, subsidies and technology improvements have made solar and wind energy more competitive with fossil fuels. U.S. capacity for wind-generated energy reached 61 gigawatts at the end of 2013—up from basically zero a decade before—while solar capacity reached 13 gigawatts, nearly 15 times 2008 levels. No longer a mere annoyance to the energy industry, clean energy sits on the precipice of double-digit market share: Credit Suisse predicts that renewables’ market share will rise from some 5 percent in 2012 to around 12 percent in 2025. Renewables are already causing major headaches for old-guard utilities. Take, for instance, the concept of net metering, which encourages distributed generation by requiring utilities to buy excess power from small-scale home and business installations. The possibility of a solar panel on every rooftop poses a formidable threat to an industry already struggling with weak demand trendlines due to the American economy’s decades-long shift from manufacturing to services, the proliferation of energy-saving appliances and better-insulated buildings, and, most recently, sluggish economic growth. Consider Europe, where rapid renewable energy growth contributed to the top 20 utilities losing about half their $1.3 trillion book value between 2008 and 2013. It’s no wonder that the U.S. industry’s credit ratings have fallen from an average of AA in the 1970s to BB today. But Credit Suisse’s clean energy and utilities analysts don’t see green technology as an existential threat to utilities. Power companies are both attacking net metering policies and building large-scale wind and solar plants themselves. In a recent report entitled “The Transformational Impact of Renewables,” the analysts forecast that the effect of green energy will be to push electricity prices down roughly 5 percent from where they would have otherwise been over the next three years. That’s significant, but not enough to destroy the industry. “Utilities face challenges from renewables, but the U.S. experience will be different from Europe,” U.S. electric utilities analyst Dan Eggers said in a recent interview. How Utilities Learned to Love Renewables While many U.S. utilities claim to be focused on their own renewable efforts today, they did have to be encouraged to join the party.  In 2002, only eight states required utilities to generate a certain portion of electricity from renewable sources. Twelve years later, 30 states have adopted a patchwork of renewable portfolio standards (RPS) that require between 10 percent and 40 percent of all electricity to come from green technologies within the next decade. (Eight more have voluntary standards.) The cost curves have also been moving in renewables’ favor. While there’s been help on that front via state and federal subsidies, technology improvements have also improved the economics of clean energy projects to the point where they can present a viable investment alternative.  The levelized cost of wind, a measure that allows cost comparisons between energy sources, is now $86.60 per megawatt hour, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. That’s cheaper than both conventional coal, which has a levelized cost of $100. Meanwhile, stiff competition among solar panel makers sent prices plummeting 57 percent between 2011 and 2013, pushing solar PV’s levelized cost to around $144 compared  to $236 in the first quarter of 2011, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. “The old-line arguments against renewables—too expensive, too intermittent, too remote—will continue to fade,” said Eggers. The utilities are getting into the renewables game, too. Their formidable financial resources can even give them a leg up on pure-play clean energy providers, particularly in wind, where huge and expensive towers and enormous blades provide more bang for the buck. But they’re also making a push into solar, where small-scale  installations pose the greatest threat to their market share. Minneapolis-based Xcel Energy, for example, is seeking state approval to build a 150-megawatt photovoltaic plant in Minnesota and is buying power from utility-scale photovoltaic solar plants in Colorado. Other utilities are eyeing similar strategies, and with an increased urgency since the EPA’s September 2013 release of new carbon emission rules that favor the construction of new solar- and wind-energy generation capacity over coal-fired plants. All-in, the Department of the Interior has approved 50 large-scale solar plants since 2009, including a 500-megawatt field on the Nevada-California border, and more are on the way. Credit Suisse predicts the cumulative investment in renewable energy projects in the U.S. could top $250 billion by 2025. Of course, all this additional renewable capacity will put pressure on the prices American utilities are able to charge for electricity, while leaving little room to cut fixed costs. What’s more, the wind doesn’t always blow and the sun doesn’t always shine, so even those utilities that fully embrace renewables will have to maintain some sort of reliable, consistently available power source such as gas-fired plants. But based on their actions so far, utilities seem to believe that the benefits of being in the renewables market outweigh the costs and risks. U.S. utilities may also get an eventual break from net metering, an incentive 43 states have implemented to encourage small-scale clean energy installations. The price utilities can charge consumers is generally too low to offset grid and network maintenance costs, which means they eventually may have to charge all customers more, meaning those without solar panels will be effectively subsidizing those who can afford panels. “It’s not politically sustainable, and it’s unfair,” says Credit Suisse’s Eggers, who doesn’t believe net metering can survive in its present form. In the end, rooftop solar and wind farms won’t cripple large power companies. Instead, utilities are on track to co-opt renewables into the current delivery system. Credit Suisse thinks installed wind capacity could double again through 2020 while solar could grow elevenfold—and that utilities’ thinking about the long-term will be participating in that growth. The clean energy boom won’t necessarily help traditional power companies, but it need not bring them down, either. The Financialist is a digital magazine presented by Credit Suisse that looks at the trends and ideas that drive markets, businesses and economies. FREE AppDownload
"That said, valuations are not particularly onerous with the P/E ratio for the S&amp;P 500 (SPX/1841.13) currently trading around 15.2x this year’s bottom-up estimate of roughly $121 per share. Moreover, if next year’s estimates are anywhere near the mark of $137, the SPX is being valued at a mere 13.4x earnings." As a reminder, it is important to remember that when discussing valuations, particularly regarding historic over/under valuation, it is ALWAYS based on trailing REPORTED earnings.  This is what is actually sitting on the bottom line of corporate income statements versus operating earnings, which is "what I would have earned if XYZ hadn't happened."   Beginning in the late 90's, as the Wall Street casino opened its doors to the mass retail public, use of forward operating earning estimates to justify extremely overvalued markets came into vogue.  However, the problem with forward operating earning estimates is that they are historically wrong by an average of 33%.  The chart below, courtesy of Ed Yardeni, shows this clearly.  Let me give you a real time example of what I mean.  At the beginning of the year, the value of the S&amp;P 500 was roughly 1850, which is about where at the end of last week.  In January, forward operating earnings for 2014 was expected to be $121.45 per share.  This gave the S&amp;P 500 a P/FE (forward earnings) ratio of 15.23x. Already forward operating earnings estimates have been reduced to $120.34 for 2014.  If we use the same price level as in January - the P/FE ratio has already climbed 15.37x. Let's take this exercise one step further and consider the historical overstatement average of 33%.  However, let's be generous and assume that estimates are only overstated by just 15%.  Currently, S&amp;P is estimating that earnings for the broad market index will be, as stated above, $120.34 per share in 2014 but will rise by 14% in 2015 to $137.36 per share.  If we reduce both of these numbers by just 15% to account for overly optimistic assumptions, then the undervaluation story becomes much less evident.  Assuming that the price of the market remains constant the current P/FE ratios rise to 18.08x for 2014 and 15.84x for 2015.   Of course, it is all just fun with numbers and, as I stated yesterday, this there are only three types of lies: "Lies, Damned Lies and Statistics." With the continued changes to accounting rules, repeal of FASB rule 157, and the ongoing torturing of income statements by corporations over the last 25 years in particular, the truth between real and artificial earnings per share has grown ever wider.  As I stated recently in "50% Profit Growth:" "The sustainability of corporate profits is dependent on two primary factors; sustained revenue growth and cost controls.  From each dollar of sales is subtracted the operating costs of the business to achieve net profitability.  The chart below shows the percentage change of sales, what happens at the top line of the income statement, as compared to actual earnings (reported and operating) growth."  "Since 2000, each dollar of gross sales has been increased into more than $1 in operating and reported profits through financial engineering and cost suppression.  The next chart shows that the surge in corporate profitability in recent years is a result of a consistent reduction of both employment and wage growth.  This has been achieved by increases in productivity, technology and offshoring of labor.  However, it is important to note that benefits from such actions are finite." This is why trailing reported earnings is the only "honest" way to approach valuing the markets.  Bill Hester recently wrote a very good note in this regard in response to critics of Shiller's CAPE (cyclically-adjusted price/earnings) ratio which smoothes trailing reported earnings. "More recently the ratio has undergone an attack from some widely-followed analysts, questioning its validity and offering up attempts to adjust the ratio. This may be a reaction to its new-found notoriety, but more likely it’s because the CAPE is suggesting that US stocks are significantly overvalued.  All of the adjustments analysts have made so far imply that stocks are less overvalued than the traditional CAPE would suggest." We feel no particular obligation defend the CAPE ratio. It has a strong long-term relationship to subsequent 10-year market returns. And it’s only one of numerous valuation indicators that we use in our work – many which are considerably more reliable. All of these valuation indicators – particularly when record-high profit margins are accounted for – are sending the same message: The market is steeply overvalued, leaving investors with the prospect of low, single-digit long-term expected returns. But we decided to come to the aid of the CAPE ratio in this case because a few errors have slipped into the debate, and it’s important for investors who have previously relied on this ratio to understand these errors so they can judge the valuation metric fairly.  Importantly, the primary error that is being made is not even the fault of those making the arguments against the CAPE ratio. The fault lies at the feet of a misleading data series."  If I want to justify selling you an overvalued mutual fund or equity, then I certainly would try to find ways to discount measures which suggest investments made at current levels will likely have low to negative future returns.  However, as a money manager for individuals in retirement, my bigger concern is protecting investment capital first.  (Note: that statement does not mean that I am currently in cash, we are fully invested at the current time.  However, we are not naive about the risks to our holdings.) The following chart shows Tobin's "Q" ratio and Robert Shillers "Cyclically Adjusted P/E (CAPE)" ratio versus the S&amp;P 500. James Tobin of Yale University, Nobel laureate in economics, hypothesized that the combined market value of all the companies on the stock market should be about equal to their replacement costs. The Q ratio is calculated as the market value of a company divided by the replacement value of the firm's assets.  Currently, the CAPE is at 25.41x, and the Q-ratio is at 1.01.    Both of these measures are currently at levels that suggest that forward stock market returns are likely to be in the low to single digits over the next decade.  However, it is always at the point of peak valuations where the search for creative justification begins. Unfortunately, it has never "been different this time." Lastly, with corporate profits at record levels relative to economic growth, it is likely that the current robust expectations for continued double digit margin expansions will likely turn out to be somewhat disappointing.   As we know repeatedly from history, extrapolated projections rarely happen.  Therefore, when analysts value the market as if current profits are representative of an indefinite future, they have likely insured investors will receive a very rude awakening at some point in the future. There is mounting evidence, from valuations being paid in M&amp;A deals, junk bond yields, margin debt and price extensions from long term means, "exuberance" is once again returning to the financial markets.  Again, as I stated previously, my firm remains fully invested in the markets at the current time.  I write this article, not from a position of being "bearish" as all such commentary tends to be classified, but from a position of being aware of the "risk" that could potentially damage long term returns to my clients.  It is always interesting that, following two major bear markets, investors have forgotten that it was these very same analysts that had them buying into the market peaks previously.  This article originally appeared at STA Wealth Management.  Copyright 2014. Follow STA Wealth Management on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
During the Q&amp;A today, Fed Chair Janet Yellen said: "[T]he language that we used in the statement is considerable period. So I, you know, this is the kind of term it’s hard to define. But, you know, probably means something on the order of around six months, that type of thing.” She was referring to the sentence in the FOMC statement: The Committee continues to anticipate, based on its assessment of these factors, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored.(emphasis added) This raises several questions:1) When does six months end?2) Is this data dependent?3) Is this new news? Here is a table of actual and projected FOMC tapering (Note: this is not preset, but it would take a substantial change in the forecast to deviate from this schedule): Calculated Risk Based on this schedule, the FOMC will conclude tapering as of January 1, 2015. So six months would be around July 1, 2015. And to question #2, of course this is data dependent - on both employment and inflation. And on question #3, is this new news? Calculated RiskHere is the chart today from the FOMC projections showing when participants expect the first rate hike (this was mostly unchanged from the December meeting). Thirteen of sixteen participants expect a rate hike in 2015. So saying "around six months" or mid-year isn't much "new" news (maybe a few months earlier than some expect). Maybe it surprise some participants, but Yellen's comment fit previously released projections, so it really shouldn't be too shocking. My guess is, if the first rate hike happens in mid-year 2015, it will be perceived as good news. FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Marcos Brindicci FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. We're Far From Euphoria (MarketMinder)  Stocks had a record year in 2013, with the S&amp;P 500 returning 30%. Now many wonder if the market looks frothy and if we're overdue for a correction. "It’s been a long time since investors witnessed euphoric equity markets firsthand," write the staff of Fisher Investments. The 2000-2007 bull market didn't reach the euphoric stage either. What's more, concerns over Crimea and profit margins means there are few "similarities to the prevailing sentiment in 2000," when the tech bubble burst. "Two words you didn’t hear much in 2000? Bubble and euphoria. They are easy to find today—evidence of lingering skepticism, not euphoria. (Bubble fears, in this way, are somewhat self-deflating!) We’re only starting to see sentiment tiptoe toward optimism—investors could warm to stocks significantly before reaching euphoria. And as they do, stocks should rise with sentiment until you reach an eventual bubble likely few will be discussing." What Advisors Need To Do In A Scarce Yield Environment (The Wall Street Journal)  It's getting harder to find yield, and for advisors it "might mean adopting an investment approach that's more opportunistic and active than you're accustomed to," writes Mike Sorrentino of Global Financial Private Capital in a new WSJ column. Advisors can do this by looking for income-generating stocks. "At our firm, the kind of event we're keeping an eye out for is a market correction that affects stocks that look like bonds--telecom stocks for example, that have high dividend yields and relatively low volatility," he writes. But advisors also need to be mindful of the emotional toll this can take on their clients.  Bonds Are Not In A Bubble (Business Insider)  Some argue that low rates mean bonds are in a bubble, but Steve Feiss, an interest rate strategist at Government Perspectives, told Business Insider's Matthew Boesler that this is one of the most misunderstood thing in markets today. "I'm biased as a bond guy but offended almost daily at the flagrant misunderstanding that is "sold" to/through mainstream media regarding the association of low rates with an asset class that is in a bubble."  "U.S. Treasury rates are as much a "future" discounting mechanism as are the equity markets. What were stock prices thinking back in 1999? Exactly WHAT multiple were they OK with, again? How’d that work out? While I get that low rates hurt savers and retirees, simply selling low rates as a bubble like tech stocks were in 1999 seems to leave out the discussion/distinction between components OF the fixed income markets as well as the fact that as a country, we generally speaking like buying cheap stuff at Target and Wal-Mart. And as long as that continues, China will continue to have an abundance of U.S. dollars, and so will continue to be natural buyers OF our U.S. Treasuries. Low rates are likely here to stay for quite a while. Still. Like it or not…" UBS Is Considering Expanding Into The Independent Advisor Space (Investment News) UBS is considering expanding into the independent advisory channel as competition from registered investment advisors (RIAs) grows, reports Mason Braswell at Investment News. UBS has considered having an independent arm but John Mathews, head of UBS's Private Wealth Management group thinks this could     be distracting for employees. "Culturally, we're at a pretty good place right now, and if we introduce a new channel, it could be viewed as, 'Why are those people getting paid more,' or something like that,” Mathews told Braswell. "But we're pragmatic, too, so if the market turned that direction years from now, we'd have to consider it." The Impact Of The 'Millionaire's Tax' On New Jersey's Wealthy Is Unclear (CNBC) A report from New Jersey wealth-management firm Regent Atlantic Capital, that says the wealthy are leaving the garden state for lower-tax states like Florida and Pennsylvania, is getting a lot of attention. The report says this follows the implementation of New Jersey's "millionaire's tax" in 2004 which raised taxes on those making $500,000 or more.  But Robert Frank at CNBC tells us we should take the report with a grain of salt because it relies on "anecdotal evidence" and because the report itself says it has no "proof or hard evidence" that the reason they're leaving is because of high taxes. He also points out that New Jersey is also creating new millionaires. "The report points out that the high costs and restrictions to doing business in the state have been costly. But it remains unclear whether the millionaire's tax is the sole reason some of New Jersey's rich are moving to Florida," Frank writes. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ShemetovA man walks past an information screen on display inside the office of the Moscow Exchange in the capital Moscow March 14, 2014. Washington (Reuters) - U.S. securities regulators contacted public funds with investments in Russia to make sure they are properly managing risks and disclosing their holdings to investors as political tensions rose over Crimea, according to several people familiar with the matter. Attorneys with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission started to place calls to registered investment companies such as mutual funds and exchange-traded funds more than a week ago, the sources said. The calls are a routine part of how the SEC monitors asset managers through its Division of Investment Management, and are not related to any investigation. But they come during a period of turbulence for Russian stocks, which have been volatile since March 3 when mounting tensions with Ukraine over the Crimean Peninsula sent Russia's benchmark stock index tumbling 12 percent. Russian stocks fell 14 percent between February 28 and March 14, but have recovered 6.6 percent this week. They are now down 12.3 percent so far in 2014. The ruble hit a two-week high on Wednesday after dropping to record lows on Monday. The people familiar with the calls say SEC lawyers are not trying to tell funds how to invest, advice which would not be in the SEC's mission. Rather, the regulators are focused on whether funds are being open with investors, and whether the funds are thinking and preparing about how they might respond to different scenarios or outcomes. These routine reviews include making sure funds are not omitting or misrepresenting material information to the marketplace. In at least one case, a source said, the SEC did not question the fund's existing disclosures, but urged the fund to consider updating its disclosures in the future to address the events in Crimea. The contacts by the SEC began well before White House spokesman Jay Carney warned U.S. investors away from Russian stocks at a news briefing on Tuesday. In an unusual statement, he said those stocks could lose value because of sanctions that the United States and European Union have put in place and others that they could add. The United States and the EU imposed travel bans and asset freezes on a number of officials from Russia and Ukraine after Moscow declared the Crimean Peninsula a part of Russia. The SEC has been particularly interested in speaking with funds that have more than 10 percent exposure to Russian securities, including stocks and bonds, one person familiar with the agency's activities said. Fund companies that have received calls from the SEC told the regulator they believe their disclosures are sound and adequate, two sources said. Funds with at least 10 percent exposure to Russian stocks include the ING Russian Fund, T Rowe Price Emerging Europe Fund, Fidelity Emerging Europe Middle East Africa Fund, Goldman Sachs BRIC Fund and the Templeton BRIC Fund, according to a list compiled by Lipper, a unit of Thomson Reuters. The SEC regularly contacts fund companies when international unrest occurs, one person familiar with the SEC's practices said. For example, it has made similar calls in connection with concerns about mutual funds' exposure to Puerto Rico, which had its debt downgraded earlier this year. The SEC also reached out to funds when there was an uprising in Egypt in 2011 that led the country to close down its stock market. A unit in the SEC's Investment Management Division that specializes in disclosure has historically been in charge of reviewing fund holdings and public statements to investors in times of civil unrest. However, in the recent calls to funds with Russian investments, another group of SEC employees who specialize in risk examinations have joined those disclosure experts, one person said. (Additional reporting by Ross Kerber in Boston and Ashley Lau in New York Editing by Linda Stern and Mohammad Zargham) FREE AppDownload
APNew Jersey Assembly Majority Leader Lou Greenwald issued a statement Wednesday night responding to comments Gov. Chris Christie made at a town hall meeting Monday about the state's ban that would stop Tesla Motors from selling its cars directly to customers. Greenwald rejected Christie's claim the matter should be settled between Tesla and the Legislature and promised to "work with my colleagues in the Legislature to clean up the governor’s mess." "When it comes to Tesla, Governor Christie needs to get his facts straight. Rather than take responsibility for his own administration's decision to shut down Tesla, he chose to point fingers and evade accountability. These town hall antics reek of hypocrisy," Greenwald said. "The governor's comments are a classic example of passing the buck in the face of an unpopular decision instead of accepting responsibility." On March 11, the New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission approved a measure preventing auto manufacturers from selling cars without using franchise dealers. The new regulations would force Tesla, which uses a direct-sales model, to shut its two stores in the state by April 1. In a series of blog posts and tweets published last week, Tesla labeled the Commission's decision a "backroom deal" between Christie and the car dealers' lobby that took place "outside the legislative process." At the town hall meeting Monday, Christie fired back and argued Tesla was always told New Jersey law prohibited its direct-sales model. He said he would have "no problem" allowing Tesla to sell cars in New Jersey if the company works with the Legislature to change the law.  "We tried to work with them when they first started to operate, to tell them that they were not operating within the law, didn't shut them down immediately," said Christie. "There came a point when I had to enforce the law. That point came. If the law changes, I'm happy to enforce the new law." In his statement, Greenwald countered by accusing Christie and the Commission of "changing their rules" on Tesla. "Here are the facts: the Motor Vehicle Commission previously issued Tesla a license to sell cars in New Jersey. Now, MVC is changing their rules so that Tesla will no longer be allowed to operate in New Jersey. This was not an act of the legislature, but rather Governor Christie's administration changing its mind about Tesla," Greenwald said. "Instead of taking responsibility for his administration, Governor Christie instead chose to manufacture a crisis and blame the legislature. Nevertheless, given the importance of this issue, I will work with my colleagues in the legislature to clean up the governor’s mess. The policy priorities of encouraging innovation, promoting environmental protection, and accommodating consumer concerns are of paramount importance. I have met with both sides of this issue, and I look forward to working collaboratively to find a solution, rather than finger-pointing in an effort to score political points." Greenwald is one of several Democrats in the state Legislature who have indicated they would be willing to put forth a bill that would change the law.   FREE AppDownload
Robert Galbraith/ReutersIt couldn't have gotten any worse for RadioShack (NYSE: RSH  ). The retailer of consumer electronics goods is trying hard to turn around its business, but it just isn't happening. The stock has lost 33% in the last year and the company recently announced that it plans to close down 1,100 underperforming stores. RadioShack has revamped its top management line-up in a bid to turn around, but it will see no respite in the short run. According to CEO Joe Magnacca, "RadioShack turnaround will take time and our results will vary as we make strategy changes to improve our long-term financial performance." Let us see how the electronics retailer plans to turn around its ailing business in the wake of competition from online retailers such as Amazon (NASDAQ: AMZN  ) and bigger peers such as Best Buy (NYSE: BBY  ) . Turnaround effortsRadioShack has been sailing through troubled waters for quite some time. The company has faced major setbacks in various areas. To lead its comeback efforts, it has three managers who have over 60 years of combined experience. As a part of its turnaround strategy, management has come up with what it calls the "five pillars" plan.  These five pillars of RadioShack include repositioning its brand, revamping its product assortment, reinvigorating the store experience, improving its operational efficiency, and improving its financial flexibility. The fourth-quarter results do not reflect any progress on these pillars, but management seems positive anyway. Let us see one-by-one how RadioShack plans to execute on this five-pronged strategy. The first pillar involves repositioning RadioShack's brand in the minds of customers. To accomplish this, it launched an award-winning commercial that has strengthened consumer engagement and coverage. With this ad, the company launched its new brand positioning statement "Can Be Done, When We Do It Together." RadioShack counts on the technical knowledge of its store associates to set itself apart from its peers.  The second pillar aims at revamping the product assortment. RadioShack is trying to identify new trends earlier and the company supports technological innovation. The company has reorganized its business into two platforms; mobility and retail. Mobility consists of mobile phones, tablets, and other related accessories. RadioShack is entering into prepaid and postpaid contracts with various operators in order to bring new choices to its stores. The third pillar involves reinvigorating the store experience. RadioShack has launched a new concept store which comes as a significant advancement in technology retailing. These stores are well-lit and intricately designed with clean lines and modern materials that highlight the products that the company sells. RadioShack believes in differentiating itself from its peers through this new store experience. It has stocked demonstration devices in its stores which the customer can operate and look at before buying. The fourth pillar involves improving operational efficiency. As a result of this, RadioShack has announced that it will close around 1,100 underperforming stores. However, the company will still have over 4,000 stores in the U.S after the planned closure, which gives it ample room to execute its turnaround going forward. An outdated concept?Even though all of the above measures seem encouraging, RadioShack cannot escape the harsh reality that we live in a digital world. Also, it looks like RadioShack is failing to compete on price against online retailers like Amazon. For example, according to Wedbush Securities, a pack of three batteries at RadioShack costs $12.99 while a pack of 10 batteries at Amazon costs $5.45 and a pack of 50 costs just $7.33. Moreover, the wide range of products and stock availability at Amazon in combination with the convenience of shopping from home poses a big threat to RadioShack. Also, since RadioShack isn't as price-competitive as Amazon, consumers really don't have an incentive to shop at its stores. The resurgence of Best Buy has also become a thorn in the flesh for RadioShack. Best Buy looks to use its 1,400-plus stores and eight distribution centers to deliver goods to customers rapidly and efficiently. Also, Best Buy is going a few steps further by offering rooftop solar panels from SolarCity in 60 of its stores across the nation. So, while Best Buy is making futuristic moves, RadioShack seems to be sliding into oblivion. TakeawayRadioShack's initiatives look promising on paper, but the company faces real and potent challenges from new-age retailers like Amazon and turnaround story Best Buy. The future doesn't look promising for RadioShack at all as analysts project a 148.8% annual decline in the company's earnings over the next five years, which makes it look like a dead-money investment. There’s a huge difference between a good stock and a stock that can make you rich. The Motley Fool's chief investment officer has selected his No. 1 stock for 2014, and it’s one of those stocks that could make you rich. You can find out which stock it is in the special free report "The Motley Fool's Top Stock for 2014." Just click here to access the report and find out the name of this under-the-radar company. Sharda Sharma has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends Amazon.com and SolarCity. The Motley Fool owns shares of Amazon.com and SolarCity. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
Library Of CongressIn the wheat pit of the Board of Trade of the city of Chicago, 1920."The large operator does not, as a rule, go into a campaign unless he sees in prospect a movement of from 10 to 50 points. Livermore once told me he never touched anything unless there were at least 10 points in it according to his calculations." So writes Richard Wyckoff, the legendary trader who in the 1930s wrote a manifesto that gained him a cult following on Wall Street. His 1931 book, "The Richard D. Wyckoff Method of Trading and Investing in Stocks – A Course of Instruction in Stock Market Science and Technique," is out of print and somewhat difficult to find these days (not impossible), but even in 2014, hedge fund managers still swear by it. One of the key takeaways from the book is that if you want to succeed, you have to learn to recognize the professionals and understand what they are doing. That's what those who follow Wyckoff do — they watch the large operators. Wyckoff walks us through the process of how a large operator will manipulate a stock up or down — so that next time one sees it unfolding on the screen before his or her own eyes, he or she can react accordingly. This, you could say, is real technical analysis ... FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesBelow is an interview we did for Tuesday's "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter with Martin Enlund, a senior fixed income and foreign exchange strategist, on some of the big stories affecting global markets — including what to watch for in today's FOMC meeting. Sign up for the newsletter at the bottom! BUSINESS INSIDER: What is the most exciting trade out there right now, in your opinion? MARTIN ENLUND: As a Scandi-focused strategist, I like flattening the SEK money market (FRA) curve outright, or vs. Euribor, or why not buying SGBs vs. e.g. Bobls — Swedish bonds are cheap given the Riksbank's clear attention to short-term inflation. BI: What has contributed most to the euro's rise over the last two years, and what are the key factors driving its current strength? ME: I think one of the key drivers have been, and still is, private and official accounts reallocating into Europe (and partly out of EM). With the consensus still widely convinced of a "no-growth, no-inflation and no-rate Europe," this process has further to go. BI: Which developments in global financial markets, if any, would you flag as most concerning for risk appetite? ME: Aside from the obvious candidate of geopolitics, I think signs of U.S. inflation in conjunction with a Federal Reserve not accepting an overshoot of inflation would be bad news indeed. Such an outcome would more or less put the Greenspan/Bernanke/Yellen put on hiatus. I do not see that happening just yet though. BI: What do you perceive to be the most misunderstood trend or event in or characteristic of today's markets? ME: The nature and effects of Fed QE. Tapering is tightening. I overall believe the Fed's road toward monetary policy normalisation will be a fairly tumultuous one, given that more or less no one, including Bernanke himself, is quite sure how QE works — if it works at all. BI: What pieces of new information (e.g. economic data releases, FOMC, price action in a given market over the next few days/weeks, etc.) do you think have the biggest potential to alter your outlook? ME: The FOMC decision is key — see above. I'm not at all worried about the $10 billion tapering with regards to rates or the G10 FX space. However, a not-soft-enough statement should mean markets will have to increasingly price in an end to cheap money, which is likely to have broad and negative consequences for all things risky — headwinds for both PE ratios as well as the credit space. Editor's note: This Q&amp;A went out to subscribers of our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter on Tuesday morning. Sign up below to get the newsletter and more of these interviews in your inbox each morning. FREE AppDownload
Large counties along the Eastern Seaboard saw barely any job growth last year, according to new Census data. The census looked at all counties in the U.S. with more than 75,000 employees. Among the 28 counted in Pennsylvania (19), Connecticut (4), New Hampshire (2), Maine (1), Vermont (1), and Rhode Island (1), none saw job growth greater than the national average of 1.7% between Q3 2012 and Q3 2013.  Among the eight large counties in Maryland, just one, Anne Arundel outside Washington saw growth above 1.7%. In New Jersey, just four of 15 did. And in New York and Massachusetts, only counties around New York City, Rochester, and Boston, respectively, beat the national average. Remember, population centers are where most of the country's economic activity is now supposed to be concentrated. So if those areas in your state have nothing going on, you're probably in trouble.  Here's the map. The yellow shows large counties at or below the national average. The rest are in blue. And the eastern seaboard has a heck of a lot of yellow.  Census  
Sergei Karpukhin/ReutersA woman sun bathes at the Summer Fair in Moscow. The fair displays luxury goods and luxury services. For now, U.S. and EU sanctions in response to the annexation of Crimea are limited to freezing the banks accounts of a few Russian individuals.  But if Western powers decide to tighten the screws by freezing Russian assets outside of the country, they won't have to look far: Russia's investment holdings are concentrated in a short list of small countries, according to the latest data available. As the Russian government tightened its grip on the Crimean peninsula, annexed by military force, the White House and European Union this week responded with financial sanctions against 21 Russians, including government officials, aides to president Valdimir Putin and others "responsible for undermining the sovereignty, territorial integrity and government of Ukraine," according the a White House statement. The move targets their personal assets, "but not companies that they may manage on behalf of the Russian state." Those assets—consisting of stocks, bonds and other personal financial holdings—were pretty easy to find. Of the half a trillion dollars in investments held by Russians outside the country, roughly two-thirds is held in accounts in just three countries: Cyprus, the Netherlands and the British Virgin Islands, according to data collected by the Bank of Russia. The three countries have been popular tax havens for Russian wealth since a surge in capital flight began in the 2000s. Beyond dodging taxes, oligarchs and other wealthy Russians have also parked their wealth in "safety nests" abroad because "Russian state support is weak for small and medium-sized investors," according to a 2011 report by the Vale Columbia Center on Sustainable International Investment. Those investors got a major shock a year ago, when a financial meltdown in Cyprus brought tight restrictions on bank withdraws and left many Russian investors unable to access their cash. Many diverted fresh investments to the British Virgin Islands, which saw an influx of $61 billion in new Russian holdings through the first three quarters of last year, according to the latest data available. Despite the capital restrictions in Cyprus, another $7.5 billion in Russian assets (net of deposits and withdrawals) landed in the tiny island nation during the first nine months of 2013. Austria was the third-largest gainer, with $5.1 billion in net inflows during that period. CNBC President Barack Obama has threatened tougher sanctions if Russia widens its military presence in Ukraine. But despite the high profile announcement, and the support of European leaders, the latest action will inflict little economic pain on wealthy Russians not targeted with sanctions. And the Russian government won't feel a thing. (Read more: No one supports military response: Ukraine PM) "Sanctions against Russia announced so far do not add up to much," said Carl Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics. "This is little more than a slap on the wrist. Real sanctions would bite away at Russia inflows of foreign currency." Such sanctions will be much harder—if not impossible—to pull off. To do so, the U.S. and Europe would have to crimp Russian oil and natural gas exports, which make up roughly half the country's commodity exports and its biggest source of hard currency by far. The most successful recent model might look like the sanctions on Iran—which involved a much tighter net dropped by the U.S. and Europe on Iranian assets outside the country and severe restrictions on cash generated from oil sales. Such sanctions would almost certainly get Putin's attention: Russia's energy sector accounts for more than half of the government's revenues and about three-fourths of Russia's natural gas exports flow to Western Europe. CNBC The problem is that—unlike the ready alternatives to Iranian oil—Europe has no way to replace Russian energy supplies. Russia supplies about 30 percent of the oil and natural gas imports that Europeans rely on to fill their gas tanks, heat and light their homes and run their factories. So cutting off the petro-Euros flowing back to Russia would inflict at least as much pain on Europe as it would on Russia. Nor has the Russian government been shy about reminding Europeans where their energy comes from. Twice—during the depths of winter in 2006 and 2009—Russia shut off gas supplies to Ukraine over trade disputes, crimping supplies further west in Europe. Russia's militarized grab of Crimea further complicates negotiations over construction of a new gas pipeline that would bypass the Ukraine. The project, known as South Stream, was proposed by Gazprom, and rejected by European regulators in Dec. 2013. Those talks are likely to be much chillier follow the Russian annexation. European leaders, meanwhile, are looking at a variety of alternatives to weaning their continent off Russian energy supplies over the long term. One involves tapping the boom in U.S. oil and natural gas production, where pressure is building on the White House to speed permitting of export facilities for liquefied natural gas shipments. So far, only six such terminals have been approved. But even if fast-tracked, it would be years before enough additional terminals could be built to provide meaningful supplies to Europe. U.S. oil producers are also looking at exporting their expertise in hydraulic fracturing, or "fracking,"—the technology that sparked the boom in U.S. output. Several EU countries, including Britain, France, and Poland, are believed to contain enough undeveloped gas to supply about as much as a 10th of EU gas demand by 2035, according to the International Energy Agency. "The powerful realities of infrastructure and gas economics will limit what Europe can ultimately achieve in this area, according to a report by IHS Global Insight. "Russia will remain a substantial gas supplier to Europe." With Europe reliant Russian energy for years, if not decades, recent U.S. and EU threats of wider Russian sanctions appears limited to extending the list of wealthy Russians with offshore bank accounts.   FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesA stockbroker and a clerk from a top corporate law firm were charged with insider trading in a scheme that involved a middleman swallowing illicit tips that were written on Post-it notes, the Securities and Exchange Commission said in a release. Vladimir Eydelman, 42, who worked at Oppenheimer and is currently with Morgan Stanley, and Steven Metro, 42, a managing clerk at Simpson Thacher &amp; Bartlett, are accused of engaging in a four-year scheme that netted $5.6 million in ill-gotten gains. According to the SEC, Eydelman and Metro carried out the scheme by allegedly using a mutual friend as a "middleman" to exchange the material information. (The middleman is a cooperating witness in this case.)  The SEC claims that Metro would find out non-public information from deals his law firm was working on by accessing the firm's confidential computer records. Metro would then arrange to meet the middleman at a New York City coffee shop or bar. During these meetings, Metro would type stock ticker symbols on his cell-phone screen and point to indicate which company was being acquired in the transaction, the SEC release alleges. He would also indicate the announcement date and the acquisition price, the regulator also alleges.  The SEC alleges that the middleman would then arrange to meet up with Eydelman, the stockbroker, in Grand Central Terminal. While in the train station, the middleman would allegedly show Eydelman what was written on the Post-it or napkin, then chew it up and swallow it. The complaint says that they did this for more than a dozen companies. Metro and Eydelman were arrested Wednesday morning. They face both civil and criminal charges. Metro is charged with nine counts of securities fraud; Eydelman is charged with eight counts of securities fraud. Both have been charged with four counts of tender offer fraud, according to a release from New Jersey U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA screen displays a news conference by Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen as a trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange March 19, 2014. Janet Yellen stepped up to the mic for the first time as Fed Chair, and she rocked the markets. During the Q&amp;A of a press conference Wednesday afternoon, she said the Fed could start raising interest rates as soon as "six months" after it was done winding down its stimulative quantitative easing program. This was a much narrower time frame than expected. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Brian GratwickeEditor's note: This post originally appeared last month on BitScan.com. It is republished here with permission from the site.  Bitcoins, in case you hadn’t noticed, are quite a big deal at the moment. A lot of people are talking about them, there’s a lot of noise in the media and a whole lot of momentum building behind them on the web. But a while back I got to wondering: how many people actually own bitcoins? The answer to that question has some big implications. For starters, it tells us how ‘real’ the buzz is: is it just down to a handful of vocal enthusiasts, or does it represent a limited but rapidly-growing popular movement? That, in turn, gives us some kind of indication how much bitcoin might develop over the course of the next year and beyond. It tells us what proportion of the population have bought into the idea, and therefore what proportion are left who might come on board in the future. And that, of course, gives some kind of indication about what we can expect in terms of appreciation in value, levels of future use, business prospects, and so on. Last week, I looked at some of those questions in passing, in a post called five predictions for 2014. Next week, I’ll be using the answers to the question in this post to put some flesh on the bones of that basic prediction of future value rises. (And let me tell you, there’s some serious wishful thinking going on out there.) Back to how many people own bitcoins – or at least, own them in any meaningful amounts. Having dug around on the web for information, it turns out that there’s plenty of speculation about this, too. Lots of suggestions, some of which are based on reasonable assumptions and mathematical modelling, and some which are just plucked from the air. This graph shows the number of unique addresses used at a given time - which you might think was a fair proxy. But this forum thread from six months ago - which comes up with a range of answers from just a few thousand to 2 million - demonstrates some of the problems in guesstimating the real total, even with that information. Fortunately, getting to the bottom of the matter is simpler than it might seem. Bitcoin, remember, is based on complete transparency. Every transaction that has ever occurred is stored in the blockchain, copied time and time again on myriad computers around the world. That’s how it works – it’s one of the reasons why bitcoin is such a game-changer. It also means that all the information you need is there for the taking, if you know how to access and interpret it. It turns out that a helpful chap called John Ratcliff has created a very handy utility to do just that. You can find it here, along with some of the results of his work (taken about a month ago, but still current enough to be useful) which I’ll unpack below. Thank you, John, for a fantastic resource. First things first, around 31 million transactions have taken place in bitcoin’s history. That seemed a little low to me to begin with, but it starts to look more reasonable in the light of other findings. More than 25 million addresses have been referenced in those 31 million transactions. The total number of addresses, of course, gives an upper limit for the number of possible bitcoin users. Naturally, not every address ever referenced is still in use. In fact, it turns out that less than 10 percent actually have any bitcoins in – fewer than 2.5 million. So that means an absolute maximum of around 2.5 million people own bitcoins right now. But approximately half of these addresses have very, very small amounts of bitcoin in – what is termed ‘dust’, or less than one millibit (0.001 btc). The total balance of all of those 1.2 million addresses is only 121 bitcoins, which means they each hold an average of just 0.0001 btc. In dollar terms and at current values, these 1.2 million ‘dust’ addresses hold a maximum of $0.80 and an average of $0.08. Why do so many addresses hold next to nothing? One theory is that back in 2011 a denial of service attack was launched against the bitcoin network by ‘spamming’ it with small transactions. Remember, in 2011 the value of the amounts in question would be a miniscule fraction of the $0.08 dollars each they represent today. Whoever did it, I bet they wish they could have their money back now... In any case, that leaves us with a balance of around 1.2 million addresses that have a meaningful quantity of bitcoins in – and the vast majority of these, almost one million, hold less than a full bitcoin. The total of this million-or-so accounts is just 87,000 btc. The rest of the world’s bitcoin wealth is distributed among the remaining 250,000-odd addresses. Just 97 addresses have a balance over 10,000 btc, and two addresses more than 100,000. It’s fair to assume that one of these belongs to Satoshi Nakamoto. He (or they) is sitting on a fortune of around $1 billion US at current prices, and has been for a while. Incidentally, it might be relevant that around half of the bitcoins in the world, 5.5 million, are sitting in addresses that haven’t been touched in over 2 years, and many of them over 3 years. We can’t know how many of these represent deep cold storage, and how many are down to forgotten private keys. The short answer is a maximum of 1.2 million. Of course, many people have several addresses, and some have dozens of addresses. Even the average bitcoin user will probably have an address associated with an exchange, one that operates as a current account, one as cold storage, and so on, and so on. Not all of those will have coins in at any given time. Many have tiny amounts that the owner has forgotten about. So whilst it’s hard to say, I’d estimate that between half and three quarters of a million people is reasonable ballpark range. It’s worth remembering that this is a snapshot of the blockchain. There may be other people who have owned bitcoins in the last week or month, and can be classed as active bitcoiners, but who didn’t own any right at that moment. Just 500,000 people own bitcoins. That figure could easily grow by 100-fold, or even 1,000-fold, in the medium-term future, if bitcoin is widely adopted as an internet currency, let alone the default online medium of exchange. That gives just some indication of how far the cryptocurrency still has to go – something I’ll be looking at over the next week or two in more detail. - See more at: http://bitscan.com/bitnews/item/how-many-people-really-own-bitcoins-and-why-does-it-matter#sthash.GXzRfhaJ.dpuf This article originally appeared at BitScan.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
It sounds like the plot of a movie: A recent college grad from the south buys a round-trip ticket to New York City. She gives herself 30 days to find a job, an apartment, a life. If she doesn't find it, she's going home. In 1991 Alison Brod, founder and CEO of one of New York City's foremost boutique public relations firms, lived that script. After finding the courage to introduce herself to a woman at a major fashion PR agency, she nailed the dream job that put her on a path to a dream career. Now her firm represents brands like L’Oreal, Mercedes, New York Fashion Week, Piperlime, and Godiva. In a recent Open Door interview with finance career site, OneWire, Brod insisted, “If you find something that you like to do and you work really, really hard, and you take every opportunity, you go to every event and you don’t leave without meeting somebody new, things will just come to you, and your path will be guided.” To Brod, all careers (not just PR) are a game. They're a combination of skill, taking advantage of opportunity and chance. She started her firm when she overheard a man talking about a product launch in an elevator. Instead of taking the work to the company she was working for at the time, she took on the client — Burberry's perfume line — herself. That client then helped her start her own firm. To get those chances, though, you have to go out, you have to be aware, and you have to let people know that you can give them what they want. If they know you can deliver, they'll deliver for you. "It's about accumulating people that can connect you to the other people," said Brod. Watch the full video below, and click here to subscribe to OneWire's video series. . FREE AppDownload
APHoward Schultz, Chairman & CEO of Starbucks, established the company's European headquarters in Amsterdam in 2002Coffee drinkers, rejoice! Or have another cup of joe, anyway. Despite rising coffee prices, Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz told CNBC on Wednesday he does not plan to raise prices at its roughly 10,000 company-operated stores. "I think this is a time in America where raising prices is not the right strategy," Schultz said on "Squawk on the Street." "We have to provide value. We have to provide trust with our customers. I want to manage through this without raising prices in our retail stores. We may need to raise prices in the grocery business, which is a different story." Rising coffee prices had put a bad taste in the mouths of some analysts on Wall Street, though. Some analysts have expressed concern about 2015 prices and argued so long as coffee prices remain high, Starbucks' stock will remain in a rut. But Schultz, speaking to CNBC's Jim Cramer from the company's analyst day in Seattle, played down such concerns. "I think the market, unfortunately, has completely overreacted and misread the coffee situation," Schultz said, noting the coffee company has already purchased nearly 18 months' worth of coffee. He added that coffee accounts for less than 20 percent of its cost of goods, and over the last 40 years, his company has encountered higher prices many times before. "The truth of the matter is that dairy is probably a bigger issue for us going forward than coffee, but we will be able to maintain our guidance, our EPS and absolutely manage through and negotiate through any rise in coffee costs," Schultz said. "So I think the market should realize that is a nonevent." Starbucks' stock traded higher in afternoon trading on Wednesday. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA screen displays a news conference by Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen as a trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange March 19, 2014. Janet Yellen stepped up to the mic for the first time as Fed Chair, and she rocked the markets. During the Q&amp;A of a press conference Wednesday afternoon, she said the Fed could start raising interest rates as soon as "six months" after it was done winding down its stimulative quantitative easing program. This was a much narrower time frame than expected. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
The Federal Reserve's interest-rate decision is notable for two reasons. One is that the Fed has scrapped the Evans Rule, which said the Fed might think about rate hikes once unemployment hits 6.5%. Now the Fed is being more vague about when it will hike rates. The other notable fact is that more members of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) see rate hikes sooner than they did last year. This change is represented in the following two charts. The first shows the predicted path of the federal funds rate. Each dot represents where an FOMC member sees the federal funds rate at the end of each year. The second chart shows the same thing, except it's from the December meeting. The key thing to look at is the dots in 2015. More people now think there will be a rate hike in 2015 than did at the previous meeting. FOMC FOMC So because more people anticipate a rate hike in 2015, that's being seen as tightening. But in her press conference, Federal Reserve Board Chair Janet Yellen said not to pay close attention. Specifically, she said people "should not look at the dot plot as the primary way in which the Committee is speaking to the public at large." Later she said: "These dots are going to move up or down over time," implying that there's going to be a lot of fluctuation. For a full characterization of the FOMC decision, see here &gt; FREE AppDownload
In announcing a new budget today, George Osborne, the chancellor of the exchequer (finance minister), said the U.K. needs a new £1 coin "to help reduce counterfeiting and ensure the integrity of the United Kingdom’s currency." Here are some details on the prototype from the Royal Mint: "The proposed £1 coin design is distinctly British, with a twelve-sided shape which evokes memories of the pre-decimalization threepence piece. "It will be constructed from two different colored metals and contain an iSIS security feature — a revolutionary new high security coinage currency system developed by The Royal Mint." There will be a public design competition for the reverse side of the coin, which the U.K. hopes to introduce in 2017. So shiny:  FREE AppDownload
Before you fill out your March Madness bracket, take a look at the historical data. Should you pick one of the top-seeded teams to win the tournament? How many upsets are there likely to be? We did the math. Produced by Sara Silverstein and Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Bloomberg TVFed Chair Janet Yellen The Federal Reserve has just released a statement detailing its latest decision on monetary policy resulting from the first Federal Open Market Committee meeting under the leadership of Janet Yellen. The FOMC elected to reduce the monthly pace of its quantitative easing program by another $10 billion and scrap the 6.5% unemployment rate threshold that previously characterized its forward guidance on the likely future path of short-term interest rates, as was largely expected. It also lowered its GDP and unemployment rate forecasts, but pulled forward its forecasts on the likely timing of rate hikes. The U.S. dollar and yields on U.S. Treasuries are sharply higher in the wake of the release. During the press conference following the release, Yellen defended the FOMC's decision to drop the 6.5% threshold, saying the Committee was watching "many more things" in assessing the health of the labor market. She also said the FOMC was fully committed to its 2% inflation target, and did not want to undershoot it for an extended period of time. "There is only very limited upward drift," said Yellen, referring to Committee members' forecasts for the fed funds rate contained in the FOMC's updated Staff Economic Projections. Yellen downplayed the importance of the "dot chart" in the SEP, saying it should not be viewed as the Committee's primary means of communication with the public. When asked about how much of the recent slowdown in economic activity was due to unseasonally harsh weather, Yellen said it did play a role, and the Committee sees those effects dissipating, but was likely overoptimistic at its January meeting. The Fed's new forward guidance as outlined in the March FOMC statement is as follows: "The Committee continues to anticipate, based on its assessment of these factors, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored." When asked for clarification on what "considerable time after the asset purchase program ends" means, Yellen said probably somewhere on the order of six months, depending on conditions at that time. These comments sparked a sell-off in the stock market and sent yields on U.S. Treasuries to their highest levels of the day. FREE AppDownload
Sotheby's International RealtyStone Mansion in Alpine, New Jersey.A new study says the wealthy are fleeing New Jersey for lower-tax states like Florida and Pennsylvania. But like many similar studies, it fails to prove a clear cause and effect between the movements of the rich and taxes. The report, from the New Jersey wealth-management firm Regent Atlantic Capital, has been lighting up the New Jersey media and websites. It says that in 2010 alone, New Jersey lost taxable income of $5.5 billion because residents moved. It ties the wealth flight to the state's "millionaire's tax," which raised taxes on those making $500,000 or more (roughly the top 1 percent of New Jersey taxpayers) starting in 2004. In a four-year period before the millionaire's tax, the aggregate net worth in the state increased by $98 billion, the report said. After the tax, the net outflow reversed "70 percent of the wealth gained in the prior four years," the report said. The report is one of several studies in recent years analyzing New Jersey's high taxes on its wealthy. And it comes as some state Democrats push for even higher taxes on high earners. Aside from its high income taxes, New Jersey also has famously high property taxes, estate taxes and other local levies. Several previous studies have echoed Regent Atlantic's assertion that high taxes are gutting New Jersey's wealthy population and tax revenue. Others, like this Princeton study, find no clear evidence that high taxes are chasing out the rich. The Regent Atlantic report should be taken with some caveats. First, RegentAtlantic is a wealth management firm, so its interest is in protecting and preserving New Jersey's wealthy (or at least their existing clients). It says its paper relies on "anecdotal evidence," its own survey and a review of existing studies. But while the paper goes into a detailed argument on why tax migration makes financial sense, it states at the beginning that "this paper does not provide proof or hard evidence that high income and/or high net worth residents are leaving New Jersey because of high taxes." Finally, it says the average adjusted gross income of the people leaving New Jersey for Florida is $74,000 a year. People making $74,0000 a year are not subject to the millionaire's tax—that only applies to $500,000 a year earners. Finally, while millionaires may be leaving New Jersey, the state is also creating new ones. A recent study found that New Jersey ranks second in the nation (after Maryland) for its millionaires per capita. This is not to say New Jersey is thriving. The report points out that the high costs and restrictions to doing business in the state have been costly. But it remains unclear whether the millionaire's tax is the sole reason some of New Jersey's rich are moving to Florida. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joshua RobertsJanet Yellen during her first meeting as Federal Reserve Board Chair. The Federal Open Market Committee's statement for March is out. The committee has elected to reduce the monthly pace of its quantitative easing program by another $10 billion and scrap the 6.5% unemployment-rate threshold that previously characterized its forward guidance on the likely future path of short-term interest rates, as was largely expected. The new forward guidance reads as follows: "The Committee continues to anticipate, based on its assessment of these factors, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored." The statement references the 6.5% threshold set by the introduction of the "Evans rule" that previously formed the core of forward guidance: "With the unemployment rate nearing 6-1/2 percent, the Committee has updated its forward guidance. The change in the Committee's guidance does not indicate any change in the Committee's policy intentions as set forth in its recent statements." The FOMC also released updated Staff Economic Projections, displayed in the table below. GDP and unemployment forecasts for 2014, 2015, and 2016 all received a slight downgrade from December's projections, while inflation forecasts were largely unchanged. Federal Reserve Below are committee members' forecasts for where the federal funds rate will be at the end of 2014, 2015, and 2016. This is the dot chart everyone has been waiting to see. The median FOMC member now sees the federal funds rate at 1% at the end of 2015 and 2.25% at the end of 2016, up from 0.75% and 1.75%, respectively, in the December SEP. Federal Reserve For comparison, below is the dot chart from the December SEP. Federal Reserve Below is the full text of the March statement. ------------ Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in January indicates that growth in economic activity slowed during the winter months, in part reflecting adverse weather conditions. Labor market indicators were mixed but on balance showed further improvement. The unemployment rate, however, remains elevated. Household spending and business fixed investment continued to advance, while the recovery in the housing sector remained slow. Fiscal policy is restraining economic growth, although the extent of restraint is diminishing. Inflation has been running below the Committee's longer-run objective, but longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace and labor market conditions will continue to improve gradually, moving toward those the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee sees the risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as nearly balanced. The Committee recognizes that inflation persistently below its 2 percent objective could pose risks to economic performance, and it is monitoring inflation developments carefully for evidence that inflation will move back toward its objective over the medium term. The Committee currently judges that there is sufficient underlying strength in the broader economy to support ongoing improvement in labor market conditions. In light of the cumulative progress toward maximum employment and the improvement in the outlook for labor market conditions since the inception of the current asset purchase program, the Committee decided to make a further measured reduction in the pace of its asset purchases. Beginning in April, the Committee will add to its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $25 billion per month rather than $30 billion per month, and will add to its holdings of longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $30 billion per month rather than $35 billion per month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. The Committee's sizable and still-increasing holdings of longer-term securities should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative, which in turn should promote a stronger economic recovery and help to ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with the Committee's dual mandate. The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months and will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. If incoming information broadly supports the Committee's expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and inflation moving back toward its longer-run objective, the Committee will likely reduce the pace of asset purchases in further measured steps at future meetings. However, asset purchases are not on a preset course, and the Committee's decisions about their pace will remain contingent on the Committee's outlook for the labor market and inflation as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee today reaffirmed its view that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy remains appropriate. In determining how long to maintain the current 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will assess progress--both realized and expected--toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. This assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. The Committee continues to anticipate, based on its assessment of these factors, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. The Committee currently anticipates that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run. With the unemployment rate nearing 6-1/2 percent, the Committee has updated its forward guidance. The change in the Committee's guidance does not indicate any change in the Committee's policy intentions as set forth in its recent statements. Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Janet L. Yellen, Chair; William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; Richard W. Fisher; Sandra Pianalto; Charles I. Plosser; Jerome H. Powell; Jeremy C. Stein; and Daniel K. Tarullo. Voting against the action was Narayana Kocherlakota, who supported the sixth paragraph, but believed the fifth paragraph weakens the credibility of the Committee's commitment to return inflation to the 2 percent target from below and fosters policy uncertainty that hinders economic activity. FREE AppDownload
Copper is bouncing back and prices are up 1.2% to $2.9860 per pound. The metal was down 2.2% to $2.8880 per pound earlier today. Copper prices have been falling recently and today's sell off came after news that Chinese property developer Zhejiang Xingrun Real Estate has collapsed. China's property sector accounts for about 40% of copper demand. Concerns about slowing Chinese growth and domestic bond defaults have weighed on copper. There have been concerns that copper-backed loans in China are expected to unwind. Some 60-80% of China's copper imports have been used as collateral. Not everyone agrees however. From Goldman Sachs (via FT): "In contrast to some media reports, we find that the bulk of Chinese commodity financing deals are ongoing, facilitating ‘hot money’ inflows into China and providing a mechanism to import low cost foreign financing." They argue it remains a supply-demand story. With declining demand in China as supply stays strong. Here's a look at how copper's been trading today: Thinkorswim   FREE AppDownload
We're still trying to understand how the unusually cold weather in the northeast and the unusually dry weather in the west affected the economy and the earnings of the companies in it. "Unusually severe winter storms throughout the quarter disrupted operations, decreasing shipping volume and increasing costs, and impacted year-over-year operating income by an estimated $125 million," said FedEx earlier today in the company's quarterly earnings announcement. FedEx wasn't the only company to bring up weather in its latest earnings announcement and conference call. "Searching through all earnings conference call transcripts for S&amp;P 500 companies between January 1, 2014 and March 12, 2014, the term “weather” was mentioned at least once in 195 conference calls," said FactSet's John Butters. "This number reflects an increase of 81% over the year ago period (January 1, 2013 through March 12, 2013), when the term was mentioned in 108 conference calls." "At the sector level, the Energy, Consumer Discretionary, and Industrials sectors not only had the highest number of conference calls in which the term was used, but also the highest year-over-year growth in absolute numbers." FactSet FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of MarqueeMarquee NYCIn the world of New York City nightlife, the cardinal, absolute worst, number one sin is to be boring. Never do it. It's with that knowledge that the party minds over at Strategic Group (specifically, partner Jonathan Schwartz) have decided to introduce a game. It's called The Swap. Four DJs — Size Records artists AN21, Max Vangeli, Third Party,and Qulinez — will switch off between two clubs, Marquee and LAVO, over one night. With one ticket, revelers will have the opportunity to experience these DJs in completely different vibes. And as you know, vibe is everything.  Marquee is a massive multi-floor playground/warehouse with 28-foot ceilings. LAVO, on the other hand, is also a killer dinner (and wild brunch) spot with intimate underground dance floor. Both will have your LED lights, your bottles, your models, your general debauchery. It's just that for one night, you can switch off between the two whenever, however you want. It all goes down on April 19. Here are the set times: LAVO · Midnight-1 a.m.: Third Party · 1 a.m.-2 a.m.: AN21 · 2 a.m.-3 a.m.: Qulinez · 3 a.m.-4 a.m.: Max Vangeli Marquee New York · Midnight-1 a.m.: Qulinez · 1 a.m.-2 a.m.: Max Vangeli · 2 a.m.-3 a.m.: Third Party · 3 a.m.-4 a.m.: AN21 Tickets will be available starting March 19, 2014 on MarqueeNY.com and LavoNY.com starting at $30. Marquee New York is located at 289 10th Avenue and LAVO Nightclub is located at 39 E 58th Street. And check out the flyer below: Strategic Group FREE AppDownload
Here's a chart from First Solar 's analyst day presentation, showing how in the span of four quarters (practically overnight in business land) North America devoured global solar market opportunity share. In other words, North America (gray) is taking an increasing share of a growing pie. Meanwhile, the overall market itself nearly doubled. Also of note: the market opportunity in North Africa is now practically as large as in Asia.    Check it out:  First Solar FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonPeople wait in line to enter a job fair in New York April 18, 2012. State unemployment insurance officials warned Senate leaders on Wednesday a pending bill to extend unemployment insurance would be extremely difficult to implement, a development that threatens to stall momentum for the bill in the Senate and kill its chances of being considered in the House.  In a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, the National Association of State Workforce Agencies (NASWA) — a group that represents state unemployment insurance directors — said the bill would "substantially increase the administrative burden on states." The letter argued some of the bill's provisions would "cause considerable delays in the implementation of the program and increased administrative issues and costs.".  "Some states have indicated they might decide such changes are not feasible in the short time available, and therefore would consider not signing the U.S. Department of Labor's agreement to operate the program," the letter said. NASWA pointed to four specific issues with the legislation, which could be voted on as soon as next week. The bill would retroactively extend unemployment benefits to about 1.3 million Americans. However, NASWA warned by the time some states will be ready to implement the legislation, the bill's extension will already have expired because of technical problems with states' "antiquated" computer systems and other administrative issues. Furthermore, the organization also argued a provision ending the extension of benefits to anyone who made more than $1 million the previous year would be "very hard to administer," since the current unemployment insurance system does not collect information on individuals' gross incomes.  Senate negotiators have wrangled for months over a compromise on extending the unemployment benefits. But even if the bill passes through the Senate, the new letter makes it even more unlikely the Republican-controlled House would take up the bill.  "Based on this report, we don’t think the Senate should pass the Senate bill – let alone the House," a House GOP aide told Business Insider. House Speaker John Boehner's office blasted out the report along with a statement from Boehner, in which he said the bill was "unworkable." "Frankly, a better use of the Senate’s time would be taking up and passing the dozens of House-passed jobs bills still awaiting action," Boehner said.  Adam Jentleson, a spokesman for Reid, shot back at Boehner Wednesday afternoon. "We believe the concerns that have been expressed are resolvable and we look forward to Speaker Boehner coming to the table to find solutions," Jentleson said. "It is hard to imagine Speaker Boehner simply walking away from the thousands of people in Ohio who lost their jobs through no fault of their own and need this lifeline to make ends meet while they continue to look for work." Here's the full letter from NASWA President Mark Henry: Senate Letter on EUC Extension, S. 2148, Final  This post has been updated. FREE AppDownload
Esther Perel is a couples therapist based in New York and the author of the international best seller "Mating in Captivity." By Alana Kakoyiannis. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Nicholas CarlsonAlibaba, the enormous e-commerce company in China, is about to file for an IPO in the U.S.  The company is relatively unknown in the States — but not for long.  Here are some facts about the company that help you figure out just how powerful it really is: FREE AppDownload
JP Morgan will sell its commodities unit to commodities trading firm Mercuria. As yet we don't know for how much, and we don't know exactly when the deal will be finished (though it's said to be sometime in the third quarter). But that's just the business, what looms larger than either of those questions is the person behind it — Blythe Masters. Her future is as yet unknown. Wall Street will be watching this closely. Not only is Masters, 44, one of the most powerful women in finance (who became a managing director at JP Morgan at age 28), but she's also the economist who invented the credit default swap. "Blythe will be making a decision about her future over the course of the next few months," said a person familiar with the transaction. "[There's] still lots to do between now and the close in the 3Q." It's possible that Masters could go along with her business — done deal. And once someone enters the shadowy world of commodities trading firms, it's rare that they're ever heard from again. That goes for Mercuria and any of the firms similar to it — Glencore, Cargill and more. They're all silent hands moving invisible dials all over the world. On the other hand, Masters could stay at JP Morgan. Even without her home unit, she's an institution at the bank and could use her skills to focus on trading commodities futures. She could also move to a unit that operates similarly to the one she pioneered — like the bank's currency business. "My guess is firm morale would drop greatly if she left right now," said one JPM employee. "The bloodletting across Wall Street on the markets side has been so nasty." The kind of work that Masters does is capital intensive — you need cold, hard cash. That means that if she wants to keep doing the same thing she's been doing, going to a hedge fund is unlikely. And while most of Wall Street expected Masters to get snapped up in the deal with Mercuria, that doesn't mean she couldn't go to another bank. So would they hire her?  "No idea," said a source familiar with the situation at Goldman Sachs. "We certainly know her well enough through her work at SIFMA (the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association)." Then there's Jefferies. It's a smaller bank with no commercial arm. As such, the Federal Reserve has not pressured it to do anything about commodities at all. As a result the bank has been trying to grow its commodities business. "Jefferies already had begun to enter the commodity business in a significant way with the creation of their Financial Products subsidiary in 2003," said one former Jefferies employee. "That group was spun out as CoreCommodity Management, a Jefferies owned commodity fund manager, in 2012. With the acquisition of Bache, a large commodity player, in 2011 at the height of the commodity boom the investment bank made a huge commitment to the space. With other banks scaling back due to Dodd Frank and other concerns, Jefferies might see an opportunity to grab further market share. She would be a logical choice and, despite their smaller stature as a bank there is no question that they are willing to write big checks for key people." And Masters would command a big check. A really, really big check. FREE AppDownload
AP The war of words between the administration of New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie and electric luxury car company Tesla Motors continued when the governor held a town hall meeting Monday. The Star-Ledger newspaper reported an attendee at the event asked Christie about the ban on auto manufacturers selling cars directly to consumers passed by the New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission last week. Christie responded by characterizing the ban as simply being a clarification of existing laws requiring manufacturers to work with auto dealers in the state that would prevent Tesla from extending its direct-sales operation to New Jersey. "I'm not pushing Tesla out; the state Legislature did," Christie said. "They passed a law — which is still on the books — which says if you want to sell cars in this state, you must go through an authorized dealer and my job is not to make the laws, it's to enforce the laws." In a series of blog posts and tweets last week, Tesla described the ban as the result of a "backroom deal" between the state's car dealer lobby and Christie that took place "outside the legislative process." Christie's office has maintained they told Tesla it would need to work with the Legislature "on a bill to establish their new direct-sales operations under New Jersey law" since the company "first began operating in New Jersey one year ago."  Tesla currently has two stores in New Jersey. Those locations would have to close by April 1 as a result of the ban. At the town hall meeting Monday, Christie said the fact those stores were allowed to stay open up until this point proved his administration "tried to work with" Tesla. He also said he would be "happy" to have Tesla sell its cars directly in the state if the Legislature moves to change the law. "We tried to work with them when they first started to operate, to tell them that they were not operating within the law, didn't shut them down immediately," said Christie. "There came a point when I had to enforce the law. That point came. If the law changes, I'm happy to enforce the new law." Christie also insisted he's not opposed to Tesla's business model. "I have no problem with Tesla selling directly to customers, except that it's against the law in New Jersey. So, what they need to do is go to the state Legislature and get the law changed. If they go to the state Legislature and get the law changed, that's fine by me, but I can't pick and choose which laws I enforce," Christie said. "If Tesla wants a change, that's fine. Go to the 120 members of the state Legislature and change the law. Put a bill on my desk. I'm fine with Tesla operating in this state, but I can't let them operate against the law and thats the simple fact of it. All the other stuff that they were saying ignores the simple fact that what they were asking for was an exception from the law. I'm not the king. I don't get to grant exceptions to the law." After the Commission passed the ban March 11, some Democratic New Jersey legislators indicated they would be willing to put forth a bill to change the law.    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David GrayBelow is an interview we did for our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter with Steve Feiss, an interest rate strategist at Government Perspectives, on some of the big stories affecting global markets. BUSINESS INSIDER: What is the most exciting trade out there right now, in your opinion? STEVE FEISS: I would suggest watching the 5s30s spread as we start off the week thinking about the geopolitical landscape, which is code for risk on/off relating TO U.S. (lack of) response to Crimea vote. Then, mid-week we'll get our first Yellen-led FOMC meeting and press conference. While I had been thinking some sort of steepening (concession) might have helped place last week’s durational supply, that turned out NOT to be the case and, along with some other factors (positions, economics – more on both in a min), combined to keep curve’s flattening momentum in place. It seems that risk-off fixed income rallies benefit the longer end, while any perceived FOMC hawkishness has hit the front end and created what’s been a one-way trade since the end of November. When this changes, or more importantly, WHAT changes this dynamic, will be something exciting. Not sure at this point what that is going to be. BI: Of the divergences between normally-correlated assets that exist in the marketplace right now, which do you find most puzzling or inexplicable? SF: The bid for peripheral debt in the euro zone driving yields down and spreads in continues to boggle my mind. While I fully understand the reach for yield created by a global zero interest rate policy, it seems to me that euro zone fixed income market dynamics were healed by ECB's Draghi offering those three famous words, "Whatever it takes," back in July 2012. The way in which U.S. Treasuries continue to grind lower in yield and flatter in curvature (5s30s) even as lower-rated peripheral debt does — like nothing’s ever happened AND as if they are a good alternative to generate SAFE, government bond yield — is a perfect example of how risk on and off CAN peacefully coexist if you look hard enough? BI: Which developments in global financial markets, if any, would you flag as most concerning for risk appetite? SF: While central bank balance sheet normalization here in the U.S. is of great concern, I’ll also continue to watch how the political economy shapes up into the midterms and then 2016. The current administration has very good reason for concern and while I may NOT agree with solutions currently being offered, as I look at bigger-picture trends, it seems that big central bank balance sheets aren’t all we thought they were cracked up to be. At least not economically speaking. Coincidence that just six years ago, Bear Stearns was given TO JPMorgan for $2, then $10/share? In that I don’t have THE answers and it’s much easier to be critical, I’ll refrain from politicizing a market view and again, would note great concern IF trends like that in retail sales persist, unaffected by central bank balance sheets and fiscal policies. BI: What do you perceive to be the most misunderstood trend or event in or characteristic of today's markets? SF: Low rates meaning bonds are in a bubble. I'm biased as a bond guy but offended almost daily at the flagrant misunderstanding that is "sold" to/through mainstream media regarding the association of low rates with an asset class that is in a bubble. U.S. Treasury rates are as much a "future" discounting mechanism as are the equity markets. What were stock prices thinking back in 1999? Exactly WHAT multiple were they OK with, again? How’d that work out? While I get that low rates hurt savers and retirees, simply selling low rates as a bubble like tech stocks were in 1999 seems to leave out the discussion/distinction between components OF the fixed income markets as well as the fact that as a country, we generally speaking like buying cheap stuff at Target and Wal-Mart. And as long as that continues, China will continue to have an abundance of U.S. dollars, and so will continue to be natural buyers OF our U.S. Treasuries. Low rates are likely here to stay for quite a while. Still. Like it or not... BI: What pieces of new information (e.g. economic data releases, FOMC, price action in a given market over the next few days/weeks, etc.) do you think have the biggest potential to alter your outlook? SF: If/when fixed income (and U.S. Treasuries, specifically) positions change, we’ll want to know. We learned that as of the end of February, PIMCO had decreased the number of govies held in the total return fund (tweeting about NOT buying what the Fed will buy less of). Lost in the headlines is that it seems they did so in a curve-steepening fashion. They’ve allocated "-3%" towards the longer end of the curve (so a SHORT) while having "47%" in the 3-5yr sector, a.k.a. the belly. Carry and roll down the curve is powerful, to be sure. We ALSO follow weekly input from JPMorgan clients (reported with a week lag) and similar input from Stone &amp; McCarthy (SMR) who, by and large, continue to indicate a short base in the fixed income arena and very little U.S. Treasuries allocation. Finally, we continue to follow Great (un)Rotation proclamations by the bulge bracket firms and covering pension systems over the years, know there are lots of moving parts TO the liability-driven investing (LDI) game. Matching of one’s assets TO their liabilities matters. Eventually. I’ll keep wondering IF the last bout of curve-flattening has been just that ... a partial unwind of the "pain" trade that has seen steepeners stopped out and under-allocations remedied to some degree. See any number of Great (un)ROTATION notes from BofAML regarding pension funds taking equity profits and plowing them back into fixed income. In any case, as stocks remain at/near record highs and pension deficits, generally speaking, are much narrower now thanks to record-high equity prices, we can’t imagine where U.S. Treasury rates might be if/when equity markets were to take some (more) chips off the table. Clearly this relates back to the question/response just above and low rates NOT equating to a bubble, just because... Editor's note: This Q&amp;A went out to subscribers of our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter on Monday morning. Sign up below to get the newsletter and more of these interviews in your inbox each morning. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei Kato I’m going to keep this short and sweet. I don’t think it’s worth dedicating more than a couple of minutes to commenting this study. I’m referring to last month’s release of a paper written by Arvid Hoffman and Hersh Shefrin titled, “Technical Analysis and Individual Investors” (see here). Sam Ro over at Business Insider put together a nice piece on it today as well. I got a bunch of emails and tweets towards me thinking that perhaps I would take offense to this study (Considering I’m a technician, and a proud one). But this paper doesn’t really talk about the merits of technical analysis. It’s more about the psychology behind individual investors. The study goes on to say, “We find that individual investors who use technical analysis and trade options frequently make poor portfolio decisions, resulting in dramatically lower returns than other investors” Yea of course. But we already knew a lot of these things. Individual investors lose money on average, especially those that trade options. This is the case regardless of how they come to their conclusions (technical or fundamental). Another problem is that this particular study that focuses on amateurs goes into how investors who report using technical analysis focus on speculating on short-term market movements. This is another easy way to lose money: amateur – check, speculating on short-term market movements – check. This is a money losing strategy, regardless of discipline. Also, during the 7 years studying this small sample of Dutch discount brokerage clients, they focused on the short-term, rather than longer-term time frames and/or multiple time frames. One of the best parts about technical analysis is the ability to apply our tools across various time frames. The market is fractal. Our ability to start with longer-term trends and work our way down to short-term charts for entry and exit points is a huge advantage. Focusing on just the short-term makes you blind to bigger trends. More Most importantly, we use technical analysis and price behavior to manage risk. This is what it’s all about. Where are you wrong? Technical analysis is the best way to properly manage risk. Without looking a price, how would you be able to do that? Clearly, these Dutch retail investors are focused on hitting home runs through options, rather than just managing risk while participating in the strongest longer-term trends. That’s a problem. So I would not take this paper as “shots fired” towards technical analysis. I actually take it as more confirmation of things we already knew: - Amateur individual investors trading options is a bad idea. Not a surprise. - People who write “papers” prefer to write negative things about technical analysis, than fundamental analysis. Not a surprise. - Individuals who hold more concentrated portfolios which they turn over at a higher rate earn lower returns. Not a surprise. - The media loves the battle between technicians and fundamental analysis. Not a surprise. Technical Analysis is an art. It’s subjective. There are some technicians that are better than others. You can’t just get into this market and start using “technical analysis” and assume you’re going to make money. But with that said, Fundamental Analysis is also an art. It is just as subjective, if not more so. There are some fundamental analysts that are better than others. You also can’t assume you can just get into this market and start using “fundamental analysis” and you’re going to make money. There are the Michael Jordans and Derek Jeters of the world: the best at what they do. But those are the exceptions, not the rule. For the most part, obviously, athletes are not Michael Jordan or Derek Jeter. Most athletes are people who we’ll never hear about who are terrible basketball and baseball players. And it’s not because they are right handed or left handed, shoot from behind the arc or prefer to focus on the post game. It’s just that Michael and Derek did this for many many years, put in a lot of work, and only then did they see their sacrifices pay off. Same thing with the market. Amateurs are not professionals (by definition). You have to put in the work and that takes time. So much time that eventually you’re doing it for a living. Of those professionals, most of them are still bad at it. Most of them are not Jordan or Jeter. There are only a few of those. So it’s not so much the analysis, it’s the application. And if you’re one of those people who think that studying price doesn’t help, then there’s nothing I can do about that. A fundamental analyst once told me, “We do our best to ignore price as much as possible”. I almost spit the food out of my mouth (their portfolio was down 45% that year). But for me, I’m a simple dude. There is only one thing in this entire world that pays us, and that is price – where you buy it and where you sell it. Knowing everything about a CEO, or a balance sheet, or GDP growth does not pay you a penny. Selling at a higher price than where you buy it is the only way to ever make any money. So we choose to focus on that. The paper overall I believe is focused more on the psychology of individual investors at this dutch discount brokerage. It’s not so much about which form of analysis is better than the other. It’s about the psychology behind these investors who claim to focus on technicals and how they misuse it as most amateurs do. This should not be a surprise to anyone. I think the points that the paper makes are valid points and confirm a lot of the things we already knew. Not a big deal.  Full Disclosure: Nothing on this site should ever be considered to be advice, research or an invitation to buy or sell any securities, please see my Terms &amp; Conditions page for a full disclaimer. FREE AppDownload
Omer Wazir via FlickrAfter a severe winter, the housing market is expected to see more activity in the spring. In time for that, Zillow is out with its top 10 markets for both sellers and buyers. The criteria for the best-sellers market isn't just one where home prices are expected to appreciate the most; instead, three distinct characteristics make a city a good place for home sellers. The opposite is true for buyers' markets. Sellers have an edge on the West Coast as supply remains tight and demand is strong on the back of a stronger job market; the East Coast gives buyers an edge as homes end up on the market longer.  “In general, buyers in sellers' markets this spring can expect tight inventory, increased competition, and a greater sense of urgency," said Zillow chief economist Stan Humphries in a news release. "Sellers in buyers' markets may need to be prepared to lower their asking price, or to wait longer for the perfect buyer to come along." Here's a look at the 10 best buyers' and sellers' markets: Zillow/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
APA student from the Benigno "Ninoy" Aquino High School looks at a mural depicting the missing Malaysia Airlines plane. It has been 11 days since Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 disappeared, and investigators still appear to be mystified about what happened. The prevailing hypothesis is that the plane was stolen or hijacked and then flown for seven hours on either a bizarre suicide mission or to a secret destination somewhere, perhaps to be used on a future mission. But given the level of planning and execution required to carry out such a plan, as well as the lack of any obvious motives, other theories also have to be considered. Yesterday, we described one such theory — a fire on the plane that overwhelmed and incapacitated the pilots. This theory fits many of the facts, and it is a much simpler explanation than the "intentional commandeering" hypothesis. But this theory, too, doesn't fit all the facts, especially now that it is being reported that the plane's course changed before the co-pilot said "Good night" to Malaysia air traffic control, a routine call that made it sound as though everything was fine. The smoke-in-the-cockpit theory also isn't sitting well with some pilots we have talked to, including one who has flown the same type of plane as the one that disappeared, the 777-200ER. These pilots point out that smoke in the cockpit is one of the most common emergencies that pilots train for and that 777s are equipped with full-face oxygen masks that the pilots would have put on before they did anything else. They also say that, unless the pilots ignored their training, they would then have run through a checklist of tasks that would have included descending rapidly and making an emergency radio call. We wrote about the impressions of these pilots here. And here's another, more detailed reaction that we received from a pilot who has flown the 777 (the pilot asked us to keep his employer and his name anonymous): As a former B777 pilot, I find the "plausible" theory you published is not in line with the facts as they have been reported. I am a professional pilot with type ratings in the DC-9 (MD88, MD90), B757, 767 and 777 and I served as a Captain at a major US international airline. I feel I have some insight to add to the discussion about MH370. First off, the idea that a wheel-well fire could have burned unnoticed for over an hour after takeoff is not plausible. The B777 has wheel-well overheat/fire-detection systems that would have sounded an alarm for the cockpit crew soon after takeoff, were that an issue. Additionally, the cockpit is equipped with full-face O2 masks that provide a safe breathing atmosphere to every pilot. At the first sign of ANY smoke, the pilots are trained to drop everything and immediately, without hesitation, don those rapid-don masks that are designed to be easily donned with one hand and immediately secure themselves to the face. After that, the Captain will delegate duties ... one pilot flies the plane and handles communications, while the other works the problem, using checklists designed to narrow the issue down and address it. While the pilot working the problem is busy, the pilot flying will turn the aircraft toward the nearest appropriate airport, begin a descent, and communicate with ATC and/or any airplanes in the area. While it is true that the checklists may, in the event of an electrical fire, have the pilots de-power certain systems or circuits, these steps are down the list; the pilots would have already declared the emergency and turned toward the nearest appropriate airport. I can think of no plausible reason why the crew never made any attempt to contact ATC during the event, except that whoever was in control of the cockpit did not wish to communicate. In the case of MH370, a turn was made, but no descent was initiated at that time, nor was any communication with ATC made. Additionally, the aircraft has been reported to have climbed to FL450, and descended to FL250 later in the flight. If the flight crew had been incapacitated, this could not have occurred. Finally, a fire that incapacitated everyone onboard would have, in every scenario I can logically come up with, destroyed the aircraft soon thereafter. I reference the Swissair Flight 111, an MD11 that crashed off the coast of Halifax, Nova Scotia, on Sept. 2, 1998. From the time of initial cockpit indication of smoke until the crew was completely incapacitated was 14 minutes; the aircraft crashed soon thereafter. In this incident, the crew had ample time to communicate with ATC, and was running checklists until the very end. Indeed, the crew elected to stay airborne and continue running checklists while dumping fuel, instead of landing immediately; this decision has been credited with the loss of all passengers and crew, and is exactly why landing immediately is the primary goal in an airborne fire. For a fire to have been burning from the wheel well for over an hour before detection is not within the realm of realistic possibilities, in my opinion. While I agree that finding accurate information has been difficult with the Malaysian government's recalcitrance and affection for misinformation, everything I've read points to a takeover event that was planned and executed by persons unknown. And while some of the facts can point toward the [smoke in the cockpit scenario], to believe that this scenario is correct in the face of all the information would indicate a gross negligence on the part of the cockpit crew, and a refusal to follow basic emergency procedures.   While we all have our own biases and hopes concerning this tragic event, as a pilot who flies in this theater of the world often, I am truly concerned at the Malaysian government's reluctance to disseminate information, include other governments, or address their lax security procedures. Why were two passengers allowed to board the aircraft using stolen passports? Why did the first officer have a history of allowing passengers to ride in the cockpit of his aircraft while in flight? Where is the journalistic outcry for these obvious and dangerous breaches in security, and why aren't you, as a journalist, using your voice to call attention to it? Regardless of what is finally determined to be the proximate cause of this tragedy (which I readily admit could still be an accident) the big story should be that the Malaysian government is putting the lives of its passengers in extreme danger by not enforcing universal rules for security and flight safety. In a second email, this pilot expanded on how he is thinking about what might have happened: I don’t know what happened to MH370 any more than anyone else who wasn’t aboard. But here’s how my head works with this. I try to find the simplest, least complex explanation that works with ALL THE AVAILABLE FACTS/INFORMATION, and that doesn’t need “added” leaps or assertions or events to have happened that we do not have any info about. For instance, several things point to an “event,” not an “accident.” The lack of communication, the programmed turn, the climb to FL450 and descent to FL250, and the continuation of the aircraft’s existence as a whole object, powered and uncrashed, for about seven-plus hours after the disappearance. The plane's ACARS and transponder were physically shut off, by some accounts before the last radio communication from the crew. We know that the aircraft remained powered and in controlled flight for many hours after this point. The aircraft’s route of flight in the FMS was changed by someone in the cockpit, as was its altitude, both up and down. There was no Mayday issued, and the aircraft did not answer repeated radio calls from ATC. Let’s look at a smoke or fire “accident.” I do not believe, based on what we know now, that there was smoke or a fire. Why? Because there is no indication of fire, or smoke in the cockpit, during the time the aircraft was still in contact, and there is no indication of "fire" behavior in the aircraft's flight path. Additionally, normal emergency protocols train the crew to immediately don and wear full-face O2 masks (the B777 is equipped with them), and designate one pilot to fly and talk to everyone (aviate and communicate) while the other pilot runs the checklist and fights the problem. The plane made a sharp left turn, toward land, soon after ATC communication was lost. This was shown to have been pre-programmed into the FMS by the pilots. The flying pilot’s job in an emergency such as this would be to point the airplane at the closest acceptable runway, announce to the world the nature of the emergency (ATC) and request help, and begin a descent so that at some point during the process, an attempt to vent the smoke from the cabin could be done. Basically, none of this was done. This leads me to believe that there was no emergency of this type. For this type of emergency to be in play, it indicates that the cockpit crew would have had to willfully refuse to follow their training and checklists to combat the emergency. Airborne smoke and fire emergencies are extremely serious, and are trained for by every airline crew in the world. In the wake of Swissair 111, which crashed off the coast of Nova Scotia, we know that a flight crew has a very limited period of time in which they must land the plane before disaster ... only 14 minutes in the Swissair tragedy ... yet MH370 continued to fly for more than seven hours after contact was lost. This is yet another clue that points away from an in-flight physical, mechanical, or other type of emergency. There is evidence that Malaysia Airlines crews often allowed passengers onto the flight deck during flight, which is an indication both of lax safety and security procedures to my western way of thinking, but may be totally permissible at Malaysia Airlines. The FO had allowed some pretty girls to sit in the cockpit during a flight last year. His captain did not protest. This anecdotal info could lend credence to the idea of hijackers gaining access to the flight deck after takeoff. To my eye, a fire/smoke emergency does not fit what we currently know. Neither does a missile, engine failure, structural failure, loss of pressurization or any other kind of “accidental” failure. This looks and sounds like a “planned event,” not an “unforeseen emergency.” Mistakes can occur, and the sad truth is that we don’t know what we don’t know … but until something comes to light that supports an “emergency” situation, the simplest and most logical explanation is that someone took control of that airplane and diverted it from it’s planned course and destination. SEE ALSO: This Is The Most Plausible Theory For The Plane's Disappearance We Have Heard Yet... FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Shares in Tempe, Ariz.-based solar panel manufacturer and distributor First Solar are up more than 10% this morning on higher guidance. At its latest analyst meeting, the company said it sees FY 2013 EPS beating its own guidance. Meanwhile FY14 revenues will come in at $3.7B-$4.0B versus a consensus $3.77B.  Here are the slides — full-year EPS beat: First Solar And revenue guidance: First Solar  FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockThere are two schools of financial market analysis: 1) fundamental analysis, which is concerned economics, financial statements, earnings, and anything else that you would assume would justify a value in a real-world sense and 2) technical analysis, which attempts to forecast prices by studying past price movements. Fundamental and technical analysis aren't totally mutually exclusive. But the folks who focus on the latter are more easy to identify as they dedicate a larger amount of their time pining over charts. Fundamental analysts tend to spend more time bashing technical analysts than vice versa. So, they were probably happy to hear about a new study challenging the merits of technical analysis. FT Alphaville's Dan McCrum alerted us to the paper modestly titled "Technical Analysis and Individual Investors" by Arvid Hoffman and Hersh Shefrin, who use transaction records from a Dutch discount broker from 2000-2006. By considering actual trades, the authors are able to consider the very real impact of behavior biases. Indeed, the authors conclusions appear to be more about psychology than technical analysis itself. "We find that individual investors who use technical analysis and trade options frequently make poor portfolio decisions, resulting in dramatically lower returns than other investors," they write. "Overall, our results indicate that individual investors who report using technical analysis are disproportionately prone to have speculation on short-term stock-market developments as their primary investment objective, hold more concentrated portfolios which they turn over at a higher rate, are less inclined to bet on reversals, choose risk exposures featuring a higher ratio of nonsystematic risk to total risk, engage in more options trading, and earn lower returns." The authors quantify the underperformance: The magnitudes are economically important: controlling for concentration and turnover, the marginal cost associated with technical analysis is approximately 50 basis points of raw return per month. Turnover associated with technical analysis adds a further 20 basis points per month of cost. Concentration adds an additional 2 basis points. And it's worse for people who love to trade: A major finding from our study concerns investors who both trade options frequently and use technical analysis. For “high derivative rollers,” the marginal cost of technical analysis from poor portfolio selection is 140 basis points, not the 50 basis points which we find for the full sample of investors, with turnover linked to technical analysis adding an additional 29 basis points of cost. Importantly, we find that outside the group of high derivative rollers, the average cost of using technical analysis is small and not statistically significant. The paper does not appear to be rebuking technical analysis itself. Rather it seems to be more about the psychology of those who employ it. Here are the authors: Our paper makes three contributions to the behavioral finance literature on individual investors. First, we find that the choices of investors in our data using technical analysis are consistent with the behavior of subjects in experimental studies who use price charts. Second, we find that the behavioral traits of investors using technical analysis are similar to those which the literature links to excessive optimism and overconfidence. Third, we find that high derivative rollers who use technical analysis and have speculation as their primary investment objective exhibit the same behavioral traits as investors who favor lottery stocks. "The general advice from behavioral finance for individual investors is that they restrict their attempts to beat the market, and instead invest most of their portfolios as if markets were efficient," the author write in their conclusion. "Doing so helps them avoid shooting themselves in the foot as a result of falling prey to their own psychological vulnerabilities. Our findings suggest that this advice is apt for individual investors using technical analysis, especially if they are trading options online through a discount broker." Well said. FREE AppDownload
Tesla MotorsLast Tuesday, New Jersey became the 3rd state in the country to explicitly ban direct auto selling, effectively outlawing the sale of Tesla (TSLA) electric cars.  Tesla forgoes the traditional model of selling cars through franchised dealerships and instead uses showrooms where Tesla employees can directly educate potential buyers about their product and tout the reasons for switching to electric.  Why anyone would want to prevent a company like Tesla from reducing the global dependency on fossil fuels is one question, but why they would use anti-competitive practices to do so is a real doozie. And there only seems to be one plausible explanation. It’s the lobbying power of the New Jersey Coalition of Automotive Retailers (NJ Car). The coalition correctly and unimaginatively pointed out that direct auto sales from a manufacturer to the customer without the intermediary step of a dealership would threaten its members’ livelihood. Okay sure, but since when has fear of competition ever been a valid excuse to prevent a free enterprise from doing business it’s own way? Our economy is based on the belief that companies should provide the highest quality product at the lowest possible price and let the consumers determine who the winners and losers are, not the government. And unless you happen to represent the less than 1% of people who sell automobiles for a living, you probably don’t care much for car salesmen anyway. The simple fact is that we don’t need them and this ban on direct auto selling is detrimental to 99% of New Jersey constituents. But even if we can’t have direct selling, there is hope. BitAuto is making huge strides in China to render auto-dealerships powerless, but more on BitAuto in a second. One of the primary arguments against direct selling that Jim Appleton, President of NJ Car, made is that auto dealerships offer a public benefit in the event that a recall or warranty issue. Baloney. Do you know what Tesla did when there was a problem with the Model S riding slightly too low to the surface at highway speeds?  They didn’t waste millions of dollars of time and money with an old-school physical recall, that’s for sure. Tesla released an over the air software update to each car’s central computer to automatically adjust the suspension and correct the problem.  So, what else do auto dealerships do? They thrive on asymmetric information and feed on price discrimination, maximizing the amount that each individual will pay to purchase a car on a discretionary basis. Luckily on the other side of the world, BitAuto (BITA) is changing that. BitAuto is a online content and marketing company that operates in China which seeks to increase transparency on auto dealerships, and they aren’t happy about it. While they do provide advertising services to automotive dealers, BitAuto also allows buyers to browse and compare dealerships from the comfort of their own home.  The emerging middle class in China is driving the auto market crazy there, and BitAuto is in great position to capitalize. Car buyers love having actual pricing information available on the web because it significantly weakens the power of dealerships to overcharge them.  Estimize Estimize Throughout the past 4 quarters BitAuto has been more profitable than Wall Street has predicted and the company’s revenue is small but growing rapidly. On March 6th BitAuto reported quarterly earnings of 43c EPS and $79.9M revenue compared to just 9c EPS and $39.1M revenue back in May.  Estimize Along the rapid expansion in fundamentals, the company’s stock price has run up as well. Since FQ1 earnings were released back in May the BITA share price has tripled from $12.50 to $37.50. In the current market auto dealers still have a good bit of negotiating power and are trying to keep information as asymmetric as possible to protect their high margins. But the divulgence of information coming from sites like BitAuto will arm consumers with the information they need to fairly negotiate the price of a new vehicle without overpaying dealerships, which frankly, add very little value to the modern car buying experience.  It seems likely that franchised auto dealers are going to lose power quickly. With the spread of accurate pricing information, consumers will soon know exactly how much a car is worth and not pay a penny more. If the dealerships want to stay in business, they will need to adapt and find new ways to add value, otherwise, they look like rats on a sinking ship. Head over to the Estimize.com platform and tell us how you think Tesla and BitAuto will perform this quarter. FREE AppDownload
ToyotaToyota will pay a $1.2 billion financial penalty and fully admit wrongdoing after a widespread vehicle recall in 2009-2010 led to a criminal investigation by the U.S. Justice Department. The investigation found Toyota intentionally concealed information about the incidents, and purposefully misled the public about the underlying safety issues. The 2009-2010 recall was triggered by unintended acceleration issues. The $1.2 billion charge will be paid in after-tax charges after earnings, and is is the largest criminal penalty ever imposed on an American automaker. It's appropriate, Attorney General Eric Holder said in an announcement this morning, because "Toyota's conduct was shameful. It showed a blatant disregard for systems and laws designed to look after the safety of consumers." In a statement, Toyota North America's chief legal officer Christopher P. Reynolds said "At the time of these recalls, we took full responsibility for any concerns our actions may have caused customers, and we rededicated ourselves to earning their trust. In the more than four years since these recalls, we have gone back to basics at Toyota to put our customers first.” As part of the settlement, announced by  this morning, Toyota will also "submit to rigorous review by an independent monitor that will examine and assess" how the automaker reports safety issues to the public and regulators. In its last fiscal quarter, Toyota reported a profit of $5.2 billion, according to the AP. FREE AppDownload
PotCoin and DopeCoin are two new Bitcoin-like cryptocurrencies aimed specifically at buying drugs, reports the Huffington Post. PotCoin is targeting the legal recreational and medical marijuana industry while DopeCoin is unconcerned with legality. Both currencies have their pseudonymous creators, just like Bitcoin's "Satoshi Nakamoto." "Mrjones" and "smokeman," creators of PotCoin, imagine their currency being used not only in the U.S., but also from Vancouver to Amsterdam, wherever money can legally be exchanged for weed. They launched the currency earlier this year on January 21 at 4:20 p.m., but no retailers have committed to using it yet. They are undeterred — smokeman said "our inbox is jammed with point of sale inquiries from merchants along with some of the kindest, heartfelt letters of encouragement and thanks." There is an official PotCoin subreddit here that they hope will continue to maintain people's interest as the developers' plans come to fruition. "Dopey," the person behind DopeCoin, said that currency will be used anywhere from underground drug markets like Silk Road to more legitimate retail outlets like Overstock. "This is a digital currency created by the people for the people and what people do with it has the same consequences and responsibilities that they would have for the American dollar," he told the Huffington Post. "This is about giving people a currency choice that protects them from anyone who shouldn't be looking into what they are spending money on in their private lives." Perhaps surprisingly, DopeCoin is already accepted at four stores: "Two brick-and-mortar businesses in Europe and two online merchants in the U.S." Cryptocurrencies can solve some big problems for marijuana dispensaries that are legal at the state level, but federally illegal: Because federal law still considers marijuana illegal, traditional banks have shunned the businesses, leaving them unable to accept credit cards or open simple checking accounts. Without secure options, the businesses are largely forced into cash-only transactions, risking safety and raising tax and employee payroll issues. FREE AppDownload
Masters of the Universe aren't known for having anything resembling a jewelry collection except for one item — a watch. They're collectible, gorgeous and at times incredibly expensive pieces that can be handed down from generation to generation Exactly the type of thing a titan of any industry would want. We've put together a list and commentary about the wristwatches worn by some of Wall Street's most public executives.  As expected, a couple of the watches are flashy. A few of them are really, really cheap by Wall Street standards. And one prominent banker doesn't even wear a watch. Ever.  (If you know of the type of timepiece that an executive at your firm wears, feel free to send the tip to jlaroche@businessinsider.com) Check it out:  AP Images Buffett, the "Oracle of Omaha," wears a gold Rolex Day-Date.  Reuters/ Lucas JacksonGoldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein rocks a Swatch with what appears to be a clear plastic band. Swatch's tend to range between $50 to $245. It's also not exactly the sort of timepiece you'd expect a chief executive of a Wall Street investment bank to wear. Then again, Goldman is "the most hipster" bank on Wall Street.   Reuters/ Tim ShafferInvesting legend Jack Bogle, the founder of the Vanguard Group, wears a $14 wristwatch he received from a shareholder. "I received in the mail a wristwatch from a devoted shareholder in California. On the dial were printed our Vanguard logo, my name, and a phrase that was an indication I was still looking out for our shareholders: "Still on Watch." It was also an outrageous pun: "Still on Watch." Confident that it would be my rabbit’s foot, I put the watch on my wrist, where, having proved itself, it remains to this day. (Yes, I knew about the $50 limit on gifts. So I checked the catalog for the price. It was $14. Talk about value!)," he wrote.   Reuters/ Jessica Rinaldi We learned about Jeff Gundlach's watch collection when he had a bunch of his artwork and personal property stolen.   According to the Santa Monica Police Department report, the watches that were stolen included a Glashutte, Breitling, A. Lange &amp; Sohne, TAG Heuer and a Patek Philippe. We couldn't nail down prices for these specific models, but every one can run in the tens of thousands of dollars or more. See below:  Santa Monica PD Talk about some serious wrist candy. Fortunately, the DoubleLine Capital CEO brilliantly helped the FBI recover his stolen property. Reuters/ Brian SnyderBill Ackman, the CEO of Pershing Square Capital, sports a watch with a black band and dark face. It's classy and not flashy. We can't identify the watchmaker, though.  AP ImagesPrivate equity chief Lynn Tilton, the founder of Patriarch Partners, wears a MASSIVE bejeweled timepiece by Jacob the Jeweler. It's definitely fits her "dust to diamonds" persona. Reuters/ Brendan McDermidHedge funder Phil Falcone wears a black sports watch (it looks like Casio G-Shock) and some friendship bracelets and beads (We're assuming his twin girls made those for him). Reuters/ Yuri GripasJames Gorman wears a stainless steel Rolex Daytona, according to Ben Clymer, the founder of watch site Hodinkee. Reuters/ Yuri Gripas Jamie Dimon doesn't wear a watch. Ever. Apparently, he doesn't care for jewelry.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Alessandro Bianchi A French court rejected the appeal of ex-SocGen's "rogue trader" Jerome Kerviel, Bloomberg News reports. Kerviel, 37, is currently on a backpacking trek from Rome to Paris.  In 2008, it was revealed that Kerviel lost the French bank approximately 4.9 billion euros ($6.9 billion) through arbitrage of equity derivatives.  He was sentenced in October 2010 to three years in prison and slapped with a fine of 4.9 billion euros, but had appealed for a new trial.  Today, the appeals court in Paris gave the final verdict. He now faces prison time and a massive fine.  AP Images FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joshua LottWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Florida and other U.S. states will join the Justice Department in seeking to determine if Comcast's plan to merge with Time Warner Cable is legal under U.S. antitrust law, Florida said in a statement to Reuters. "We are part of a multistate group reviewing the proposed transaction along with the U.S. DOJ (Justice Department) Antitrust Division," the Florida state attorney general's office said in an emailed statement. It was not known how many states had joined the task force. Separately, Indiana officials were also looking at the deal to determine "the potential impact in Indiana." Erin Reece, a spokeswoman for the Indiana attorney general's office, did not indicate if Indiana was part of the multistate group. The attorneys general group is focused on broadband rather than cable in assessing the $45.2 billion deal, according to a source familiar with the effort who was not authorized to speak on the record. Comcast did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the states' review of its proposed deal. Comcast has previously argued the combination would not reduce competition because the two cable providers do not compete in any markets. The company pledged to divest 3 million subscribers, so the combined customer base of 30 million would represent just under 30 percent of the U.S. pay television video market. A combined Comcast and Time Warner Cable would also have roughly one-third share of the high-speed Internetmarket. Comcast, which is the No. 1 U.S. cable provider, said on February 13 it had agreed to acquire No. 4 Time Warner Cable. That generated criticism from some lawmakers and consumer groups concerned that there were already too few options when Americans went to sign up for broadband or cable service. Content providers - entities that make television shows and movies - also worry that a merger of the two cable giants will mean too few buyers for their products, and that those buyers will be able to push their fees down. Comcast, which owns large amounts of content after its 2011 merger with NBC Universal, and Time Warner Cable paid nearly $14 billion to content companies last year for the rights to show their films, television shows and sporting events. The fact that states are involved typically gives the Justice Department additional resources - and sometimes creates additional pressure - to ensure that a proposed transaction complies with antitrust law. The Federal Communications Commission must also approve the deal before it can close. (Reporting by Diane Bartz, editing by Ros Krasny and Doina Chiacu) FREE AppDownload
The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc.SolarCity reported a Q4 loss of $0.46/share and revenue of $47.3 million on Tuesday afternoon. Both surpassed consensus expectations. But the stock is down more than 1% this morning after the firm guided to lower and warned on narrower margins. Citing that, as well as increased operating expenses, Goldman's clean tech team is ratcheting down its 12-month price target to $85 from $88. The stock is currently trading at $77.  The analysts are reaffirming their buy rating, and they remain upbeat on the industry as a whole. "We remain bullish on the overall growth momentum in US solar rooftop installations, and see SolarCity’s scale – particularly in geographic breadth and access to capital (e.g. ABS [asset-backed securities — ed.) – resulting in further share gains as well as positive cash flow in 2014." Also this morning, Deutsche Bank's Vishal Shah reiterated his buy rating and $90 price target. FREE AppDownload
It didn't take long for John LeFevre — the man behind the satirical Twitter feed, Goldman Sachs Elevator — to get a new deal after Simon and Schuster dumped him. Earlier this month, LeFevre lost his previous deal when Simon and Schuster said information that had "recently come to light" forced them to end their relationship. One can only assume that Simon and Schuster was referring to the fact that LeFevre, a former bond executive at Citi, never worked at Goldman Sachs. LeFevre's new deal is with Grove Atlantic and publisher Morgan Entrekin who has worked with Bret Easton Ellis (of "American Psycho" fame). Press release below: Grove Atlantic to publish STRAIGHT TO HELL: True Tales of Deviance, Debauchery, and Billion-Dollar Deals by John LeFevre, author of @GSElevator STRAIGHT TO HELL: True Tales of Deviance, Debauchery, and Billion-Dollar Deals by John LeFevre, the riotous voice behind the infamous Twitter handle @GSElevator, will be published by Grove Atlantic in November 2014. As the anonymous @GSElevator, with over 650,000 followers, LeFevre made headlines with hilarious, shamelessly voyeuristic insights about the world of finance. “John’s satirical voice captures the outrageous, excessive yet fascinating lives and culture of a certain segment of the international banking elite. His work is amusing, disturbing, and at times shocking,” said Grove Atlantic publisher Morgan Entrekin. STRAIGHT TO HELL is LeFevre’s unapologetic, darkly funny account of his career in investment banking. “It’s about my stories and experiences from my own unique vantage point on Wall Street—the bond syndicate desk. This book pulls the curtain back on the trading floors and roadshows to private planes and after-hours overindulgences. I’ve seen it all,” said LeFevre. LeFevre joined Salomon Brothers immediately out of college and has had a distinguished career in international finance, working in New York, London, and Hong Kong. In 2010, Goldman Sachs hired him to be its head of Asia Debt Syndicate, a position that he was eventually unable to take due to a contractual issue. “I’m thrilled my book and I have found a home at Grove Atlantic and that the publishing process is back on track,” said LeFevre. Byrd Leavell of Waxman Leavell Literary Agency, who represents LeFevre, said, “I was delighted that we landed at Grove Atlantic and that Morgan and Jamison saw John’s book for what it is: a sardonic take on our times and culture.” STRAIGHT TO HELL: True Tales of Deviance, Debauchery, and Billion-Dollar Deals by John LeFevre was acquired by Morgan Entrekin and senior editor Jamison Stoltz. The book is scheduled to be published in November 2014. FREE AppDownload
The institutional context: This week’s FOMC meeting is of interest for more than its update of economic developments and prospects, policy insights and actions, and the periodic release of the summary of economic projections. It is the first FOMC meeting to be chaired by the highly-respected Janet Yellen; and it will be her first press conference as the leader of the most powerful central bank in the world. The Policy Context: Absent some major economic acceleration or deceleration – and, I stress, it has to be major, one way or the other – the FOMC is essentially on automatic pilot for 2014. Specifically, the Fed will: The Economic Context: The FOMC’s approach is underpinned by the view that the underlying economic conditions are strengthening, albeit slowly; that balance sheets continue to heal; and that inflation is well contained (maybe too low). As such, senior Fed officials would attribute most of the recent weakness in economic indicators to the temporary and reversible impact of the weather. And the situation in the Ukraine would be seen as important to monitor but not a reason for a policy course adjustment. The Intrigue: As it pivots from balance sheet purchases (QE) to greater reliance on forward policy guidance to support the economy, there are significant uncertainties as to how the Fed can/should best do this – particularly when it comes to the forward guidance component. What we know for sure is that the Fed will transition away from its current (narrow) unemployment threshold to a more holistic view of the labor market. This could even happen as early as this week. We don’t know as yet when our central bankers will supplement this by an inflation indicator that is well above the current rate. This is relevant for markets as investors would take the latter as an even stronger signal that the Fed would remain on hold for quite a while. If not, markets would be much more willing to test the central bank. The Immediate Market Implications: Assuming other things are relatively constant (and that is a big assumption given what is happening in Ukraine and some other emerging economies), risk assets would do well if the Fed does indeed decide to evolve its forward policy guidance by moving both on the unemployment and on the inflation fronts – that is to say, inserting more comprehensive employment indicators and some type of inflation target. Also, in such circumstances, the dollar would weaken against other major currencies, inflation-protected bonds would do well, and the nominal Treasury yield curve would steepen. The Big and Consequential Uncertainty: Notwithstanding the Fed’s continued activism and vigilance, and despite its deep and steadfast commitment to support growth and jobs, there are unanswered questions about the overall effectiveness of its current policy stance. The concern – for both Main Street and Wall Street – is that the longer the Fed experiments and the longer the economy fails to attain “escape velocity,” the greater the likelihood that the durable benefits of its unconventional policies would be offset by the “costs and risks.” Look for this issue to assume greater prominence as the Fed shifts this year from directly impacting the net supply of securities (via its QE purchases) to indirectly influencing it (via strengthened forward policy guidance).  In the process, markets would likely periodically test both the Fed’s resolve and its effectiveness. So far, investors have repeatedly given the Fed the benefit of the doubt. And it has been the correct trade, over and over again. But if the economy continues to respond rather sluggishly, and with developments in the rest of the world now acting as headwinds, the Fed may have to experiment even more to sustain the wedge between market values and underlying fundamentals.   Mohamed A. El-Erian is the former CEO/co-CIO of PIMCO. He is Chief Economic Advisor at Allianz and member of its International Executive Committee, Chair of President Obama’s Global Development Council and author of the NYT/WSJ bestseller “When Markets Collide.” Follow El-Erian on Twitter @elerianm  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Anyone may obtain this detail from the Cleveland Fed, which makes it available on their website (http://www.clevelandfed.org/For_the_Public/News_and_Media/median_cpi.pdf) and will send it to you as an email. (Contact Joel.Elvery@clev.frb.org.) I read this email notice monthly as it is received. For the last six months all measures of monthly change have been either 0.1% or 0.2%. There were no expectations for a change of course. The matrix of four ways to view the CPI monthly change in each of the last six months shows 24 data points, and all of them are very benign when it comes to this approach to measuring inflation. A second panel shows the percent change for the last 12 months. The range of the 24 data points spans 1.2% low to 2.0% high. All points fall within that band. Let’s interpret this for financial markets and for business planning. First, markets. Inflation is clearly benign as measured by the CPI. It is in a holding pattern of somewhere between 1% and 2%, depending on how one measures it. It is not rising and it is not falling. All this is happening while the policy-setting interest rate in the United States remains near zero. As today’s Fed meeting result will affirm, there is little likelihood that the policy-setting interest rate will change any time soon. And there is little likelihood that the inflation rate will change soon, either. Financial markets are proceeding with their advance based on this outlook continuing for some time. In the interest rate arena, expectations are that the near-zero rates will prevail for at least another year or two. That means security valuations based on shorter-term interest rates will continue to be robust. Hence, though stock markets may become more volatile and reactive to geopolitical events, they still have an upward bias.  Bond markets seem to be contained within trading ranges. Even the municipal bond market seems to have stabilized now that Puerto Rico has succeeded in its bond issuance and raised $3.5 billion in new cash. Detroit is gradually working out a settlement path. Worries about Chicago becoming the next city “shoe to drop” are in the Muniland conversation. Time will tell what will befall the Windy City. Cumberland avoids Chicago’s city debt; it may or may not become another type of Detroit event but why take the risk. Stable inflation and lower volatility in the bond arena mean that businesses can be forward-looking in their financial planning. There is a growing sense that some capital expenditures may be made and that some financing may be undertaken. We see some of that with our clients. For planning purposes, a stable, low inflation rate is very helpful and removes the inflation distortions that happen with inventories and financial statements. Earnings portrayed in those statements are of a higher quality in reported terms since they are not distorted by inflation. To sum up, the inflation outlook continues benign. This means little pressure on the Federal Reserve to change interest rate policy in the near term. So we expect modest but continuing economic growth in the US. It will be coupled with a Fed policy of gradualism, with scheduled tapering until a neutral central bank position is reached. And then a gradual policy shift of the maturity structure of the central bank’s balance sheet will commence. We are fully invested in our US stock market-oriented ETF accounts. A word on Ukraine. We expected Russia to “annex” Crimea. Our baseline case was not to raise cash unless we saw actual military movement. We would raise cash in the event of a shooting war. We did not raise cash on the bluster of political talk. Putin had the upper hand, played it, and won. The traditional Western powers had a weak hand and were without any reasonable choice. So they practiced restraint in arms and substituted lots of bluster. So be it.  This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
    Google has gone all-in on Google Drive over the past couple years. Most recently switching the entire "Google Docs" experience over to Drive. What they've created is an incredibly versatile cloud experience that works great both for storage and documents. Here are some tips to help you get the most out of Google Drive. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA clerk arranges bundles of 100 Chinese yuan banknotes at a branch of China Merchants Bank in HefeiHONG KONG (Reuters) - China's yuan fell beyond 6.20 to the dollar on Wednesday for the first time since April last year amid market speculation the central bank will keep the currency weak as economic growth slows. The yuan has tumbled 0.8 percent so far this week after the People's Bank of China (PBOC) on Saturday doubled the daily trading band allowed for the currency to 2 percent from the mid-point that it sets each day. Spot yuan briefly fell as low as 6.2040 in early afternoon trade before ending at 6.1965. That marked a 0.07 percent loss on the day from Tuesday's close, and a fall of 1 percent from the mid-point. "We see risks of further near-term yuan weakness, but do not expect this to extend beyond the second quarter. It is not in the PBOC's interests to have a sustained depreciation in the currency, as this will increase financial stability risks," economists at ANZ said in a research note. Other analysts agreed that allowing the yuan to weaken too far, too fast would only increase the stresses on Chinese companies and the broader economy. ANZ expects the currency to return to a modest appreciation trend in the second half, but still end the year weaker for the first time since Beijing unshackled it from its fixed exchange rate to the dollar in 2005. The currency has risen more than 30 percent since then, attracting a growing number of global investors, big and small, many of whom have come to see it as a one-way appreciation bet. ANZ like many other market watchers has now dialed back expectations for the yuan, revising its year-end yuan forecast to 6.08 from 5.98. "The yuan may not appreciate this year given China's weak economy," agreed one trader in Shanghai. "The return of yuan strength will not only rely on when the economy bottoms out, but when fresh long yuan funds come in." While the recent slide in the yuan is widely seen as a move engineered by the central bank to punish speculators, it has coincided with heightened anxiety among global investors that long-standing risks in China may be coming to a head. The economy clearly lost steam in the first two months of the year and rising debt worries following the country's first domestic bond default are adding to pressure on its currency and stock markets. A flurry of local media reports of troubled steel and property companies have compounded market jitters. Some traders suggested the yuan's decline may reflect policymakers' desire to offer some help to the sluggish economy, by effectively easing monetary conditions, while others said that may only be a welcome side-effect of the PBOC's move to deepen market reforms. Speculation that Beijing may soon announce stimulus measures for the economy has grown since data last week showed growth in investment, retail sales and factory output all falling to multi-year lows. "The currency band widening at this moment has two advantages. One is to signal that the reform agenda will not be easily given up despite weak economic condition. Second, while band widening itself has little impact on the economy, the possible consequence could be used to stabilize growth," said Zhu Haibin, an analyst at JP Morgan. However, not all traders subscribe to that view. Others said the yuan's decline reflected genuine trade as investors reduced long positions in the currency as the PBOC looks to implement deeper reforms. They pointed to the fact that just two days into the 2 percent band regime, the market had already moved the currency by the equivalent of the previous band's 1 percent limit. When the band was last widened in 2012 - to 1 percent from 0.5 percent - it took the market two weeks to build up the courage to test even the previous band's width given how closely the central bank controls the market. Indeed, in recent weeks sentiment on the Chinese yuan had already turned bearish for the first time since mid-2012 as the PBOC rounded on speculators and looked to curb hot money inflows, a Reuters poll showed last week. A weaker currency could also work against exporters if it also grows more volatile, raising their hedging costs. OFFSHORE YUAN ALSO VULNERABLE The yuan's decline reverberated offshore, where the currency's non-deliverable forwards (NDFs) indicated further weakness to come. One-year NDFs priced the yuan 1.5 percent below the mid-point fixing, compared with half a percent in December. Deliverable yuan in Hong Kong fell to its lowest level since April 2013, with traders predicting further weakness because structured product positions could come under pressure. Offshore yuan fell to 6.1995 per dollar in afternoon trade, extending a streak that has seen it weaken by 2.6 percent in nearly a month, wiping out its 2013 gains. It later regained some strength and traded at 6.1855. "Investors are deleveraging the yuan appreciation expectations in the short-term following the band widening," said a dealer in Hong Kong. The fall in the offshore yuan spot rate to nearly 6.20 per dollar, the lowest level in more than 11 months, is pressuring lots of structured yuan products which were originally sold around that level, pointing to the risk of a blowout on the short-end volatility curve. More than $300 billion of these structured products have been sold since 2013 and the yuan's drop has raised the chances of some of these products defaulting, adding another destabilizing factor in the market. Analysts say they expect further market reforms following the widening of yuan band. The next meaningful reform would be for Beijing to shift to a new market-based regime and away from setting the daily yuan fixing. As an intermediate step, China could peg the yuan to a basket of currencies weighted by the importance of its trading partners. Lu Ting, an analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch said that more specifically, Singapore's so-called BBC regime, or basket, band and crawl, seems to be favored. In some countries where hungry investors have jumped into yuan-related investment products, regulators are also expressing concern about risks as the currency becomes increasingly adopted worldwide. South Korean regulators are inspecting units of four foreign banks, sources told Reuters on Wednesday, as authorities worry about systemic risks from the rapid growth in yuan-denominated deposits. [ID:nL3N0MG0AC] In Taiwan, where the yuan accounted for a fifth of the island's total foreign currency deposits in January, regulators recently warned investors to expect more volatility in yuan. The yuan surpassed the Swiss franc to become the seventh most-used world payments currency in January, global transaction services organization SWIFT said. The "redback" is now only ranked behind the U.S. dollar, euro, sterling, yen, Canadian dollar and Australian dollar in terms of global payments, according to SWIFT. (Editing by Neil Fullick &amp; Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergei Ilnitsky/Pool Russian President Vladimir Putin (2nd R), Crimea's Prime Minister Sergei Aksyonov (front L), Crimean parliamentary speaker Vladimir Konstantinov (back L) and Sevastopol Mayor Alexei Chaliy shake hands after a signing ceremony at the Kremlin in Moscow March 18, 2014. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. Story of the week. The Federal Open Market Committee concludes its first monetary policy meeting today under the leadership of new Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen. The FOMC is expected to taper the monthly pace of bond purchases made under quantitative easing by another $10 billion to $55 billion and move toward more qualitative guidance on the likely future path of short-term interest rates. Observers will also be watching for changes to the FOMC's Staff Economic Projections for unemployment, inflation, and the fed funds rate. The FOMC will release a statement detailing its decision and the new projections at 2 PM ET, and Janet Yellen will hold her first FOMC press conference as Fed chairwoman at 2:30 PM. Yuan nears the danger zone. The Chinese yuan fell to 6.1991 against the U.S. dollar in offshore trading on Wednesday, coming close to the 6.20 "danger zone" flagged by Morgan Stanley analysts as a level that could trigger a more rapid depreciation. The move follows the worst two-day loss for the yuan (on Monday and Tuesday) since December 2008, which comes in the wake of the People's Bank of China's weekend announcement that it would widen the daily trading band in which the yuan is allowed to fluctuate in onshore markets.  Markets are quiet. S&amp;P 500 and U.S. Treasury futures are little changed from Tuesday's closing levels this morning, and the dollar is little changed against the euro and the yen. European indices are up slightly, while most Asian indices closed lower overnight, with the exception of Japan's Nikkei 225. FedEx earnings. FedEx reported earnings of 1.23 per share in the December-February quarter, below consensus EPS estimates of $1.46. Revenue also missed expectations, coming in at $11.3 billion versus the $11.43 billion consensus estimate. “Historically severe winter weather significantly affected our third-quarter earnings,” said CEO Fred Smith. “On days when the weather was closer to normal seasonal conditions, our volumes were solid and service levels were high. The FedEx strategy of maintaining separate express and ground networks with multiple hubs proved to be an especially important advantage for our package customers during this quarter’s severe weather and peak shipping.” Japan trade. Japan reported a trade deficit of ¥800.3 billion in February, larger than consensus forecasts for a ¥600.9 billion deficit. Imports rose 9% from a year earlier, while exports were up 9.8%. "Japan’s trade statistics have shown that the import surge caused by the rush demand before the consumption tax hike is peaking but still influencing Japan’s trade account significantly," says Osamu Takashima, a strategist at Citi. Euro zone construction. Euro zone construction output growth accelerated to 1.5% from the previous month in January from 1.3% in December. On a work-day adjusted year-over-year basis, construction output was up 8.8% following a 0.1% year-over-year decline in December. Across the EU, the highest increases in production in construction were observed in Slovenia (+22.4%), Spain (+5.8%) and Germany (+4.4%), and the largest decreases in Romania (-4.3%), Slovakia (-3.9%) and France (-2.2%). BoE minutes. The focus was on the recent strength in sterling and the amount of slack left in the labor market at the Bank of England's February meeting, according to minutes of the meeting released today. BoE governors concluded that sterling's strength was accounted for by the U.K.'s growth prospects relative to those elsewhere in the world, and that many of the recent job gains were of a low-productivity nature, reducing the apparent degree of capacity in the labor market. U.K. employment. 105,000 workers found employment in the three months through January, according to the latest data from the U.K. Office for National Statistics, bringing the total employed to a new record high. The employment gain failed to meet market economists' consensus forecast for a 110,000 gain, however. The unemployment rate remained unchanged at 7.2% in January. In February, U.K. jobless claims fell by 34,600, larger than the 25,000 drop expected by economists. U.K. budget. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne will present a new budget to parliament at 7:30 AM ET. "The March budget could signal growth supportive measures while the updated OBR projections could highlight that the latest improvement in the U.K. economic fundamentals resulted in improving fiscal outlook," says Citi strategist Valentin Marinov. "The latter could increase bets on potential U.K. rating upgrade and support the pound." Mortgage applications. The Mortgage Bankers Association said U.S. mortgage applications fell 1.2% from a week earlier in the week through March 14, following a 2.1% decline the week before. Meanwhile, MBA's indexes of refinancing activity and purchases both fell 1%. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike BlakeA FedEx delivery truck is seen in San Diego, California December 5, 2013. FedEx just published its fiscal Q3 financial results, and the numbers look weak. The company earned $1.23 per share, which was far short of the $1.46 forecasted by analysts. "Unusually severe winter storms throughout the quarter disrupted operations, decreasing shipping volume and increasing costs, and impacted year-over-year operating income by an estimated $125 million," said management. Revenue came in at $11.3 billion, miss expectations for $11.43 billion. The stock is down $2% in premarket trading. “Historically severe winter weather significantly affected our third-quarter earnings,” said CEO Fred Smith. “On days when the weather was closer to normal seasonal conditions, our volumes were solid and service levels were high. The FedEx strategy of maintaining separate express and ground networks with multiple hubs proved to be an especially important advantage for our package customers during this quarter’s severe weather and peak shipping.” FedEx delivers packages around the world. As such, it is widely considered a bellwether of economic activity. “While severe winter weather often affects our third-quarter results, the impact from multiple severe storms and frigid temperatures was significantly more pronounced this year and we are reducing our full-year earnings per share guidance as a result of the weather impact,” warned CFO Alan Graf, Jr. The company expects to deliver Q4 EPS of $2.25-$2.50 per share compared to analysts' forecast for $2.33. For full year, that means $6.55-$6.80, which is less than the $6.90 expected. Click Here For Updates » FREE AppDownload
Mark Ralston/AFP/FileWeibo Corp., a subsidiary of Chinese Internet behemoth Sina, has filed for a $500 million stock offer in the United States.While Internet giants like Twitter and Google champion free speech, the US listing document for Chinese microblogging platform Weibo is littered with 56 pages of warnings on the risks of operating in a country which seeks to control information. Weibo Corp., a subsidiary of Chinese Internet behemoth Sina, has filed for a $500 million stock offer in the United States, the ultimate exercise in capitalism, a s it seeks funds to grow users in the face of pressure from newer competitors. But Chinese authorities maintain a vast censorship machine to delete content considered objectionable while at the same time manning the so-called Great Firewall of China to block access to sensitive outside sites. Banned services include Twitter, Facebook and YouTube, which enable individuals to communicate with each other on a mass scale. Weibo's listing contains a 40-page section on "Risk Factors", and another 16 pages on the effects of laws and rules in the People's Republic of China. "Regulation and censorship of information disseminated over the Internet in China may adversely affect our business and subject us to liability for information displayed on our platform," it said. Banned content includes anything that "impairs the national dignity" of China, "disturbs social order or disrupts social stability", is reactionary, obscene, superstitious, fraudulent or defamatory, among other categories, it explained. On page 138, Weibo Corp. admits to censoring posts to conform to Chinese law. "We have adopted internal procedures to monitor content displayed on our platform, including a team of employees dedicated to screening and monitoring content uploaded on our platform and removing inappropriate or infringing content," it said. It is required to verify the identities of all those who post on its platforms, it added, and may have to register its encryption software with Chinese authorities. "Western (Internet) companies, part of their image and reputation, lies on the fact that they are bastions of freedom of expression," said Jason Q. Ng, a research fellow at the University of Toronto's Citizen Lab and author of "Blocked on Weibo". "That Weibo disclosed the fact that they censor... speaks to the reality of the facts on the ground -- disclosing to their potential investors that this stuff is a risk."  - Government crackdown - In contrast Twitter, which Weibo is often compared to, was hailed as a tool of free expression during the Arab Spring. Twitter -- whose CEO is currently in China on what the firm called a private visit -- has long proclaimed itself a defender of freedom of speech, although it too has faced controversy over censorship after announcing it can block tweets on a country-by-country basis if legally required to do so. But analysts said such issues might not matter to investors, saying the success of the Weibo share offer will hinge on buyers wanting a stake in a technology play in a country with more than 600 million Internet users. Its parent Sina Corp. -- which holds just over two-thirds stake in Weibo before the share offer -- is already listed on the technology-heavy Nasdaq market with a market value of $4.5 billion. "Content censorship and related regulations have been the norm for China's Internet industry through its development the past 20 years. It's not a fresh issue," said Hu Yanping of independent research institute DCCI. "The capital market will be focused on the company's operations, its ability to generate income and profits," he said. Zhuo Saijun of consultancy Analysys International, added: "I think there will still be fervent interest from investors," citing Weibo's value to companies for marketing. Nonetheless analysts say a government crackdown on content and "verified" Sina Weibo users, the thought leaders of Chinese cyberspace, has hurt microblogs -- which other companies also offer -- along with the rapid rise of instant messaging platform WeChat, which has accumulated more than 300 million users. Last year, Chinese-American investor Charles Xue, who had around 12 million followers on his Sina microblog which was heavily critical of the government, was arrested on charges of soliciting prostitutes and paraded on state television. In 2012, Sina disabled the comment feature on the Weibo platform for three days following rumours of a coup after the dismissal of high-flying politician Bo Xilai, and shut down specific accounts which carried the speculation. Weibo Corp. said in the listing filing it had more than 129 million monthly active users and more than 61 million daily active users in December, both rising steadily since 2012. It recorded a net loss of $38.1 million in 2013, narrowing from $102.5 million a year earlier. But the government-linked China Internet Network Information Center estimates that microblog users fell nine percent to 281 million last year. One foreign fund manager, who declined to be named, said: "It just does not have that dynamism compared to messaging." Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Keep this as reference. From Morgan Stanley: Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Shares in Japan Display -- the world's biggest maker of screens for smartphones and tablets and a key Apple supplier -- plunged on their Tokyo debut Wednesday, following a $3.2 billion initial public offering. The stock, which at one stage lost more than a fifth of its value, ended at 763 yen, a 15.2 percent drop from its 900 yen listing price, with one analyst describing the losses as a "disaster". The benchmark Nikkei stock index finished 0.36 percent higher. The liquid crystal display maker last week priced its initial public offering at the low end of expectations, suggesting that investors were wary about the sale, but insisted that demand was strong. Japan Display holds a leading 16 percent in the growing $35 billion global market for smartphone and tablet screens, according to US-based research firm NPD Group. And its IPO was one of the biggest in Tokyo since drinks giant Suntory's food-and-beverage unit raised $3.9 billion in 2013. However, analysts have warned it faces tough competition from lower-cost countries, including China, South Korea and Taiwan. To address this, the firm -- set up in 2012 through the merger of Hitachi, Toshiba and Sony's loss-making LCD units -- is looking to boost production of small and medium-sized screens. But Seiichi Suzuki, market analyst at Tokai Tokyo Securities, told AFP: "This is a company that was made up of units offloaded by their parent firms. (It doesn't) have a bright future." He said the firm should not have "forced its listing", citing a tough market environment with the Nikkei index down around 10 percent this year.   - 'Extremely disappointing' -   Japan Display had earlier said it would sell 140 million new shares at between 900 yen and 1,100 yen, while its major private shareholders would offload 213.9 million shares. "A disaster, no doubt," Lorne Steinberg, head of Montreal-based Lorne Steinberg Wealth Management, told Dow Jones Newswires. "The deal must have been either badly mispriced or the investor base was misjudged. In North America, dealers routinely support IPOs, so that this type of opening performance could only happen if the entire market was also going suddenly bad at the same time." Chris McGuire, chief executive of Chicago-based hedge fund Phalanx Capital Management, dumped all the shares his firm had bought at the open. "The steep price fall is extremely disappointing and shows that the deal was overpriced at issue," he said. Apple accounts for nearly a third of Japan Display's revenue, but the firm also deals with other top gadget makers such as Samsung and Microsoft. The company was formed with the aim of helping Japanese firms better compete in high-resolution display technology, which has become the standard for smartphones, tablets and other electronic devices. The government-backed Innovation Network Corp of Japan held about a 70 percent share of the firm, with the three electronics giants each claiming a roughly 10 percent stake. Many Japanese electronics and technology giants have struggled in recent years as they face price undercutting by foreign rivals and painful losses in some consumer product units, including televisions where profit margins are wafer-thin. Once-mighty firms such as Sony and Panasonic have been undergoing painful restructuring after years of losses. Sony this month said it would sell properties at a prestigious Tokyo site where it had its headquarters for six decades, as the formerly world beating firm struggles to repair its bottom line. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
AFPOne of the Tibetan Mastiffs (L) was sold in china for almost $2 millionA Tibetan mastiff puppy has been sold in China for almost $2 million, a report said Wednesday, in what could be the most expensive dog sale ever. A property developer paid 12 million yuan ($1.9 million) for the one-year-old golden-haired mastiff at a "luxury pet" fair Tuesday in the eastern province of Zhejiang, the Qianjiang Evening News reported. "They have lion's blood and are top-of-the-range mastiff studs," the dog's breeder Zhang Gengyun was quoted as telling the paper, adding that another red-haired canine had sold for 6 million yuan. Enormous and sometimes ferocious, with round manes lending them a passing resemblance to lions, Tibetan mastiffs have become a prized status symbol among China's wealthy, sending prices skyrocketing. The golden-haired animal was 80 centimetres (31 inches) tall, and weighed 90 kilograms (nearly 200 pounds), Zhang said, adding that he was sad to sell the animals. Neither was named in the report. "Pure Tibetan mastiffs are very rare, just like our nationally treasured pandas, so the prices are so high," he said. One red mastiff named "Big Splash" reportedly sold for 10 million yuan ($1.5 million) in 2011, in the most expensive dog sale then recorded. The buyer at the Zhejiang expo was said to be a 56-year-old property developer from Qingdao who hopes to breed dogs himself, according to the report. The newspaper quoted the owner of a mastiff breeding website as saying that last year one animal sold for 27 million yuan at a fair in Beijing. But an industry insider surnamed Xu told the paper that the high prices may be the result of insider agreements among breeders to boost their dogs' worth. "A lot of the sky-high priced deals are just breeders hyping each other up, and no money actually changes hands," Xu said. Owners say the mastiffs, descendants of dogs used for hunting by nomadic tribes in central Asia and Tibet, are fiercely loyal and protective. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerAn electronic screen is seen on a building amid heavy smog in Shenyang, Liaoning province October 28, 2013. Chinese companies have offered up a fresh idea to help pollution-weary travellers while cashing in on public concerns over dirty air at the same time -- smog insurance. The country's top online travel agency Ctrip.com and the leading insurer Ping An have "started to sell haze travel insurance", the state-run China Daily reported. The fresh idea comes as popular frustration mounts over the dense smog that frequently cloaks wide swathes of the country, prompting national leaders to confront the issue after years of downplaying it. In the insurance scheme, in exchange for premiums of 10 to 15 yuan ($1.60 to $2.40), Ctrip and Ping An have promised to cough up as much as 50 yuan a day to travellers subjected to hazardous skies. Terms and conditions apply -- for example, the tourist must have booked a tour through Ctrip lasting three to seven days. The insurance so far only covers six major cities, where standards vary. In Beijing and Xian, a popular tourist site home to the ancient Terracotta Warriors, the air pollution index will have to top 200 on a specific mobile phone app. In the northeastern city of Harbin and in Chengdu in the southwest the minimum index is 150, and for Shanghai and the southern city of Guangzhou, 100. Air quality readings in those cities frequently exceed those figures. But despite the seemingly favourable odds, a few frequent travellers were not holding their breath. "The premium does not go directly to tackle the heavily polluted air. I would like the money to be put to better use," Tian Yiyi, a sales representative, told the China Daily. Qian Yigang, a technician, told the paper no amount of compensation would suffice. "People travel around for fun," he said. "If their mood is upset by poor atmospheric conditions, it cannot be rewound or fixed by money." Public anger over pollution spiked in January this year when an "airpocalypse" shrouded the capital in thick smog, with particulate matter shooting 40 times past UN standards and horrifying images spreading worldwide. Premier Li Keqiang vowed to "declare war" on pollution at the country's annual legislative gathering this month, and announced new measures to add to a raft of others issued over the past year. China's pollution problem -- blamed on decades of no-holds-barred economic development -- has fuelled the capitalist spirit of other entrepreneurs too. Chen Guangbiao, a billionaire recycling tycoon known for publicity stunts, drew attention following the "airpocalypse" by offering to sell so-called cans of fresh air. In December last year a hospital in Chengdu opened a "smog clinic", the official news agency Xinhua reported. Within 10 days it saw more than 100 patients "with sore throats, runny noses and coughs", the clinic's director was cited as saying. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersUS Federal Reserve Board Chair Yellen testifies at Senate Banking Housing and Urban Affairs Committee WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve is set to trim its bond-buying stimulus for a third time in a row on Wednesday, and will probably rewrite its guidance on when it might eventually raise interest rates. The moves would represent both continuity at the U.S. central bank as Janet Yellen chairs her first policy-setting meeting and a nod to economic reality. A reduction in the Fed's monthly purchases of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities by $5 billion each, as widely expected, would bring the monthly total to $55 billion and keep the central bank on track for a measured wind down of the program as laid out by Yellen's predecessor, Ben Bernanke. Less certain is what the Fed will do about its interest rate guidance. It has said since December 2012 that it would not consider raising short-term rates until the jobless rate dropped to at least 6.5 percent, as long as inflation looked set to remain contained. But the unemployment rate has already dropped to 6.7 percent, in part because of discouraged job hunters giving up the search, and officials think the economy is still far from ready for higher borrowing costs. Top Fed policymakers have indicated they are likely to scrap the numerical threshold and move to more qualitative guidance, but exactly how they will frame it is not certain. The challenge they face is making the change without shifting market expectations for the timing of a first rate hike, now seen as coming midway through next year - in line with views also held by top Fed officials. Bank of the West chief economist Scott Anderson said the upshot will probably be "a less transparent, and perhaps less helpful, qualitative statement" of the economic conditions the Fed wants to see before raising rates. It wants to ensure "that another sharp decline in the unemployment rate for the wrong reasons doesn't send long-term interest rates soaring on expectations of an imminent rate hike," Anderson said. KEEPING MARKETS IN LINE The Fed has kept overnight rates near zero since December 2008 and has bought more than $3 trillion in long-term debt to keep borrowing costs down and spur investment and hiring. It began to scale back its stimulus in December, announcing it would trim its monthly bond purchases by $10 billion, after it saw the economy pick up speed in the fall. In January, the Fed said it would cut the purchases by a further $10 billion. At the same time, it has sought to tamp down any market expectations that rate rises will soon follow with its so-called forward guidance. But the jobless rate threshold could soon be breached, and officials want to find a more durable way to telegraph their view on when they will tighten monetary policy. They want to keep market expectations aligned with their own forecasts. If traders start to price in earlier rate hikes, the result would be tighter financial conditions that could deter the very investment and hiring that the Fed wants to promote. Even officials who prefer an earlier rate hike want the Fed's policy-setting committee to avoid surprises that could lead to market turmoil. "I'm sure this committee will be interested in doing its best to communicate about what we foresee for policy," Jeffrey Lacker, the head of the Richmond Fed, said earlier this month. Several officials have signaled a preference for qualitative guidance around a broad set of economic indicators, including gauges for the labor market and inflation, which is tracking well below the Fed's 2 percent goal. The Fed is set to announce its decision in a statement at 2 p.m. That will be followed 30 minutes later by Yellen's first news conference since taking the helm of the world's most influential central bank on February 1. Many Fed officials, including Yellen, have said recent weakness in economic data, from jobs and retail sales to industrial production and home building, appears largely due to the unusually harsh winter and should soon dissipate. If that assessment bears out, Fed officials have signaled they will likely end the bond-buying program later this year. On Wednesday, they will also release fresh projections for inflation, unemployment, economic growth and the likely path of rate hikes. Forecasts from December showed that most Fed officials saw rate hikes starting sometime next year and proceeding at a very gentle pace. With a shift away from guidance that relies on a specific level of the jobless rate, their views on the likely path of interest rates is likely to draw even more scrutiny. (Reporting by Ann Saphir; Editing by Tim Ahmann and Andrea Ricci) FREE AppDownload
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesGood morning! Markets are once again starting the day pretty flat, with little going on anywhere. This is despite the fact that concerns about China continue to mount and the Ukraine situation is as hot as it's been at any time during this crisis. Also today we have Janet Yellen's first FOMC decision. So there's certainly plenty that could push the market in one direction or another. US futures are just a hair higher. FREE AppDownload
The Federal Open Market Committee on Wednesday concludes its two-day policy-setting session, and is widely expected to continue its current path of tapering while holding its benchmark interest rate near zero. The fireworks, if there are any, should come 30 minutes after the release of the FOMC decision, at the afternoon news conference, Janet Yellen's first press conference as Fed chair. "There are a number of things we're going to be looking for in the press release, but more importantly in the news conference after; this is a new Fed chair person," said Paul Mangus, managing director of equity research and strategy at Wells Fargo Wealth Management. The FOMC, which has held the benchmark interest rate at near zero since late 2008, is expected to continue that policy for an extended period while tapering its monthly asset purchases another $10 billion, to $55 billion. But Yellen could signal a change in the threshold that the Fed has said would mark when it would start considering hiking the main interest rate from near zero. Yellen could indicate "a broader range of economic indicators is being discussed, such as underemployment, the labor participation rate and inflation, rather than focusing strictly on unemployment, currently at 6.7 percent, and the target at 6.5 percent. We're very close to that," said Mangus. (Watch: Putin, the Fed and your money) "I think the market could look at that in a positive way if it (the Fed) was looking at a broader range, since there are a lot of areas of the economy that are still recovering," Mangus added. "Not that she is going to light it up with her comments, but it may signal a different way of delivering the Fed's message, so for that we are very interested," Kevin Giddis, head of fixed income capital markets at Raymond James, said in emailed comments. The central bank's decision-making seems "pretty straightforward, no moves on rates and the continuation of the reduction of stimulus," noted Giddis. "We don't want to hear that they are not doing it, primarily because we need to get out of this painted corner," Chip Cobb, portfolio manager at BMT Asset Management, said of the Fed's tapering program. (Read more: Wall St sharply divided on 2015: CNBC survey) "We want to hear at least that the economy is headed in the right direction; we don't want to hear the Fed is more concerned than the last meeting," Cobb said. Yellen "seems to be the fairy godmother of the bull market because stock prices tend to rise on days that she speaks publicly about the economy and monetary policy," noted Ed Yardeni, chief investment strategist at Yardeni Research.  "I doubt she will say anything unexpected to rattle the market but after two consecutive days of big gains, 'a sell on the news' might be a scenario that could play out," offered Elliot Spar, market strategist at Stifel, Nicolaus &amp; Co. "By the way, I hate predicting the market on a Fed day," Spar added. —By CNBC's Kate Gibson. FREE AppDownload
A Tibetan mastiff puppy has been sold in China for almost $2 million, a report said Wednesday, in what could be the most expensive dog sale ever. A property developer paid 12 million yuan ($1.9 million) for the one-year-old golden-haired mastiff at a "luxury pet" fair Tuesday in the eastern province of Zhejiang, the Qianjiang Evening News reported. "They have lion's blood and are top-of-the-range mastiff studs," the dog's breeder Zhang Gengyun was quoted as telling the paper, adding that another red-haired canine had sold for 6 million yuan. Enormous and sometimes ferocious, with round manes lending them a passing resemblance to lions, Tibetan mastiffs have become a prized status symbol among China's wealthy, sending prices skyrocketing. The golden-haired animal was 80 centimetres (31 inches) tall, and weighed 90 kilograms (nearly 200 pounds), Zhang said, adding that he was sad to sell the animals. Neither was named in the report. "Pure Tibetan mastiffs are very rare, just like our nationally treasured pandas, so the prices are so high," he said. One red mastiff named "Big Splash" reportedly sold for 10 million yuan ($1.5 million) in 2011, in the most expensive dog sale then recorded. The buyer at the Zhejiang expo was said to be a 56-year-old property developer from Qingdao who hopes to breed dogs himself, according to the report. The newspaper quoted the owner of a mastiff breeding website as saying that last year one animal sold for 27 million yuan at a fair in Beijing. But an industry insider surnamed Xu told the paper that the high prices may be the result of insider agreements among breeders to boost their dogs' worth. "A lot of the sky-high priced deals are just breeders hyping each other up, and no money actually changes hands," Xu said. Owners say the mastiffs, descendants of dogs used for hunting by nomadic tribes in central Asia and Tibet, are fiercely loyal and protective. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
