 REUTERS/Mike SegarFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. How Advisors Can Use Active Share To Pick Funds (The Wall Street Journal)  Advisors looking at active share — percentage of investments that are separate from those in the fund's passive benchmark — should keep a few key things in mind, writes Tim Paulin of Touchstone Investments in a new WSJ column. "If there is a high degree of overlap in terms of fund selection between a portfolio and a benchmark, there's little room for that fund's manager to bring their clients the kind of outperformance they're looking and paying for," he writes. The higher the active share, the more potential there is for the fund to outperform its benchmark and vice-versa. But this information isn't always easily available and those interested in it, should just ask fund managers directly. Paulin thinks advisors should also look beyond just this metric to "qualities like a clearly defined investment process and a fundamental, research-based approach to stock selection." America's Aging Population Will Have 3 Implications For The Economy And Markets (The BlackRock Blog) The U.S. population is aging, and according to a post at The Wall Street Journal’s Real Time Economics blog, 21% of Americans will be 65 or older by 2050. While this is better than Japan (40%) and China (26%), the U.S. is still aging and this has three implications writes Russ Koesterich at The BlackRock Blog.  1. Slower growth - "While the United States’ demographic advantage suggests it will grow faster than other developed countries, growth is still likely to slow without an influx of immigrants or a change in fertility rates."2. Lower rates – "As populations’ age, people do two things: they borrow less and buy more bonds. As a result, older populations tend to have a lower equilibrium point for real interest rates. This suggests that an eventual rise in real rates may be more tempered than many analysts expect."3. Larger deficits – "As the number of retirees increases toward the end of the decade, entitlement spending will surge. And with fewer working age Americans supporting this spending, deficits will increase over time. Without a change in policy, budget deficits will once again grow and continue to grow until entitlement reform is addressed." It's Getting Harder For Brokers To Clear Their Names (Investment News) It's becoming harder for brokers to clear their names reports Mason Braswell at Investment News. A November study by Public Investors Arbitration Bar Association found that brokers won expungement in 97% of cases, but that number has been declining since. Soon after the study was released FINRA published new guidance for arbitrators. "My perception is the arbitrators are taking the issue seriously," Jason Doss, president of PIABA told Braswell. Here's The Problem With That Observation (Deutsche Bank) Robert Shiller's cyclically-adjusted price-earnings (CAPE) ratio, which is currently around 25.2, suggests that U.S. stocks look expensive. The CAPE ratio can be derived by dividing the S&amp;P 500 by the average of ten years of earnings. Some have seen this as a sign that a correction is coming. "The trouble is that the last two times the CAPE crossed 25 (in 1996 and 2003) the bull market was just getting started and ran for another four years," writes Deutsche Bank's Stuart Kirk.  Yale, Business Insider FREE AppDownload
Just over a year ago, armed men on motorcycles entered a national park in Cameroon, near the Nigerian border, and swiftly abducted a family of vacationing French tourists -- a husband and wife and their four children, along with their uncle. Two months later, the kidnappers released the hostages along with 16 others in exchange for a cool $3.15 million. The transaction was made by French and Cameroonian negotiators, but it was not divulged who made the payments, according to Reuters. So landed another cash infusion into the coffers of Boko Haram, the West African jihadist militia that has now gained worldwide infamy through the mass kidnapping of school girls in northern Nigeria. Long before its latest wave of attacks, the Islamist group has efficiently financed violent acts in the service of its mission to impose Shariah law through a combination of lucrative criminal enterprises, say experts who track the group. In addition to kidnappings, Boko Haram has secured financing through extortion, cooperation with international drug cartels and operating fake charities, these experts say.   “What is certain about Boko Haram is that the organization is very well funded; without an ever-increasing cash flow, the movement would have died out long ago,” reads a report from the Terrorism Research and Analysis Consortium, a research initiative of the reference publisher Beacham Group.   About a decade ago, shortly after Boko Haram was founded, it drew the majority of its funds from people in surrounding communities who supported its goal of imposing Islamic law while ridding Nigeria of Western influences, according to a report from the National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism (START) based at the University of Maryland. But that means of fundraising was inherently limited in a country in which 54 percent of people are classified as “extremely poor” by the World Bank. In more recent times, Boko Haram has broadened its funding by drawing on foreign donors, and other ventures such as fake charity organizations, extortion, and deals with global drug cartels, according to the START report. Its most recent foray -- the kidnapping of 276 schoolgirls to sell on the black market as “wives” -- is merely the outgrowth of a coherent strategy to find funds for expansion through whatever means necessary. The term Boko Haram translates to “Western education is forbidden,” in the local Hausa language of the predominantly Muslim region in northern Nigeria where the group is based. Since its formation in the early 2000s, the militia has been carrying out violent attacks around the country. Since 2009, when the group's founding leader was killed and replaced by his second-in-command, the attacks have grown significantly more violent and intense, according to the START report. Last year, the U.S. State Department officially designated the group as a "foreign terrorist organization." “What Boko Haram achieved in less than a year is quite remarkable,” wrote David Doukhan of the International Institute for Counter-Terrorism, in a 2013 report, citing their reign over many parts of northeastern Nigeria, the institution of Sharia law, tax collection and an Islamic education system to recruit youth to their cause. This expansion has required increasingly large sources of funding, which has apparently led Boko Haram to ratchet up its methods of raising money. “Perhaps less sophisticated than other tactics, kidnapping has become one of the group’s primary funding sources,” wrote Jacob Zenn, African and Eurasian affairs analyst at The Jamestown Foundation, in a recent report. But the group receives steady support from abroad, including from Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, according to the U.S. State Department, while using links to that terrorist group to secure further donations from sympathizers in the United Kingdom and Saudi Arabia, along with weapons and training. An unnamed United States intelligence official last week told The Daily Beast that the Islamist group had received "strategic direction" from Osama bin Laden. Boko Haram cloaks its sources of finance through the crafty use of a highly decentralized distribution network, say experts. The group employs an Islamic model of money transfer called “hawala,” based on an honor system and a global network of agents that leaves no trace. “The very features which make hawala attractive to legitimate customers -- efficiency, anonymity and lack of a paper trail -- also make the system attractive for the transfer of illicit funds,” reads a report from the U.S. Treasury Department. Other direct fundraising includes fake charities and nonprofits. Some have reported that the group receives regular payment from local leaders in northern Nigeria to protect their land.   An untraceable flow of money plus loosely guarded borders has created an ideal environment for black market trade. The porosity of Nigeria’s borders offers the group a steady flow of weapons, training, radicalization and funding. A 2012 report from the Inter-University Center for Terrorism Studies alleges that Nigerian terrorist groups are financed by drug cartels in Latin America. Lauretta Napoleoni, an Italian journalist and expert on terrorist finance, said this began to happen when the 2001 Patriot Act made it difficult to transfer drugs through the U.S. to Europe. “Nobody wants to admit that cocaine reaches Europe via West Africa,” said Napoleoni. “This kind of business is a type of business where Islamic terrorist organizations are very much involved.” Beyond drugs, Boko Haram has joined other criminal groups in Africa in the billion-dollar rhino and elephant poaching industry, according to a recent report from Born Free USA, a wildlife conservation organization. “While impoverished locals are enlisted to pull the triggers, it is highly organized transnational crime syndicates and militias that run the poaching and reap the lion’s share of the profits, funding terrorism and increasingly war,” wrote New Scientist’s Richard Shiffman. Using these extensive networks, Boko Haram members can smuggle anything from sugar and flour to weapons or even people across international borders. This, plus kidnapping ransoms and donations from abroad, is one of the most important factors keeping them in business. Earlier this week, the U.S. State Department announced plans to further its efforts to counter Boko Haram, given the importance of Nigeria as an economic and political leader in Africa. “The U.S. has a vital interest in helping to strengthen Nigeria’s democratic institutions, boost Nigeria’s prosperity and security, and ensure opportunity for all of its citizens,” according to a public statement. A major part of their plan includes a counterterrorism finance program, that “aims to restrict Boko Haram’s ability to raise, move and store money.”  FREE AppDownload
Getty Images / Jeff GentnerVince McMahon, left, with wife Linda.Vince McMahon is no longer a billionaire. Forbes reports that the World Wrestling Entertainment chairman and CEO lost a whopping $350 million when the company's stock crashed today upon news that its new streaming online video network would not replace its pay-per-view revenues until 2015. McMahon's wealth was previously estimated at around $1.1 billion, meaning he lost more than 30% of his fortune in today's crash, which sent the stock plummeting from $19.93 a share to $11.27. The crash, WWE's largest drop since its 1999 IPO, was precipitated by news that the company's new television deal with NBCUniversal was not as lucrative as investors had expected. According to Forbes, investors were expecting the new deal to be worth between two and three times as much as the previous one, when in fact the contract's value is expected to be a mere 50% increase. Additionally, the company said in a statement yesterday that it will need 1.3 million to 1.4 million subscribers to its over-the-top service to replace revenues it is losing from its monthly pay-per-view events, which previously cost around $50 but are now available to WWE Network subscribers as part of their $9.99 monthly fee. Currently, the WWE Network only has 670,000 subscribers. Excitement about the network and the new TV contract caused the stock price to double during the first three months of 2014, closing at a record high of $31.39 on March 20. The price increase helped McMahon become a billionaire for the first time since 2000. Alas, it appears that distinction was to be short-lived. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstBen BernankeBen Bernanke has wasted no time capitalizing on his experience as chairman of the Federal Reserve. According to Reuters' Jonathan Spicer and Svea Herbst-Bayliss, Bernanke has been giving talks and Q&amp;A's at dinners for the modest fee of $250,000. That sounds like a high price. But the hedge fund managers who've been to these dinners would disagree. Here's an excerpt from Spicer and Herbst-Bayliss' piece (emphasis added): At least one guest left a New York restaurant with the impression Bernanke, 60, does not expect the federal funds rate, the Fed's main benchmark interest rate, to rise back to its long-term average of around 4 percent in Bernanke's lifetime, one source who had spoken to the guest said... ...David Tepper, the hedge fund manager who earned $3.5 billion in 2013 to rank as the industry's best paid investor, said at an industry conference this week that he attended the first private dinner and peppered Bernanke with questions. But Tepper said he didn't make the best use of the information, a lapse he now regrets. "I screwed up that trade," he said. At the same conference, Novogratz from Fortress said many hedge funds that bet on big interest rate and currency movements missed a hint from Bernanke at the dinner and failed to buy long duration Treasuries... One of the biggest stories in the global financial markets right now is the stunning rally in Treasury notes and bonds, which has been reflected by tumbling interest rates. At the beginning of the year around the time Bernanke retired from the Fed, the 10-year yield was at around 3.0% and Wall Street's consensus was that it would climb to 3.4% by the end of the year. Today, the 10-year yield is at 2.52%, which means everyone who bet on bonds has been cleaning up. That is, anyone who bought into Bernanke's signal. Bloomberg.comThe 10-year yield got as low as 2.47% this week. FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Lucas JacksonBen Bernanke nods as he is served before addressing the Economic Club of New York in October 15, 2008.NEW YORK/BOSTON (Reuters) - In a series of quarter-million-dollar dinners with wealthy private investors, Ben Bernanke has been clearer than he ever was as chairman of the Federal Reserve on his expectations that easy-money policies and below-normal interest rates are here for a long time to come, according to some of those in attendance. Bernanke, who retired from the U.S. central bank in January, has predicted the Fed will only very slowly move to raise rates, and probably do so later than many forecast because the labor market still has a lot more room to recover from the financial crisis and recession. The accounts of the discussions come from attendees as well as those who heard second-hand what was said at the dinners, where hedge fund managers and others willing to foot the roughly $250,000 bill for each event asked the former Fed chairman questions in a free-flowing round-table fashion over recent weeks. Bernanke has no constraints on expressing his views in public or private, providing he does not talk about confidential Fed matters. He declined to comment on any of his remarks at the private events. The demand for Bernanke's time shows that many of Wall Street's highest-profile brokers and investors see him as holding rare insight on how the Fed will react in the months and years ahead - and are prepared to pay big bucks to get private access to those views. At least one guest left a New York restaurant with the impression Bernanke, 60, does not expect the federal funds rate, the Fed's main benchmark interest rate, to rise back to its long-term average of around 4 percent in Bernanke's lifetime, one source who had spoken to the guest said. Under his direction, the Fed took the fed funds rate, its key policy lever, to near zero in late 2008 as the financial crisis raged. The central bank has held it there ever since in a bid to stimulate a stronger rebound in the world's largest economy. Another dinner guest was moved when Bernanke said the Fed aims to hit its 2 percent inflation target at all times, and that it is not necessarily a ceiling. "Shocking when he said this," the guest scribbled in his notes. "Is that really true?" he scribbled at another point, according to the notes reviewed by Reuters. The sources requested anonymity because the dinners were private and they were not authorized to discuss the material publicly. The Washington Speakers Bureau, which organizes the events and advertises the former chairman's availability on its website, did not return calls. AFTER THE FED Since leaving the Fed at the end of January after serving eight years as chairman, Bernanke has taken a position as a distinguished fellow at the Brookings Institution, a think tank in Washington. He kept a low profile for the first month after his departure, delivering his first public remarks to a banking conference in Abu Dhabi on March 4 and earning a $250,000 speaker's fee. His annual paycheck from the Fed was $199,700 last year - an amount that he would have already exceeded many times over from the fees he has earned in the past couple of months. By contrast, his predecessor at the Fed, Alan Greenspan, waited only a week after his departure before addressing a private dinner hosted by Lehman Brothers, the investment bank whose collapse in 2008 sent the financial crisis into high gear. That also brought in a reported $250,000, while a private telechat with investors in Japan that same day in 2006 was worth about half of that, each drawing criticism for giving high-paying investors a leg up on others who didn't have access to Greenspan. Bernanke's private dinners began near the end of March, roughly two months after his retirement. "It's not atypical for what other former Washington big shots do," said Jan Baran, a partner and head of the election law and government ethics group at law firm Wiley Rein LLP. "He's being paid ... for sharing his wisdom and predictions, and presumably not to exert his influence on the Fed," he added. This will go on "until he's proven to not be all that clairvoyant." TIES WITH YELLEN The baseline fee for a private get together is $250,000, and more if Bernanke needs to travel from his home in Washington, though the price has dropped some as he has done more events, the sources said. The size of that decline could not be immediately learned. He is known to be close with his successor, Janet Yellen, adding to perceptions that he should know what the thinking is at the Fed months after his departure. It is a particularly sensitive time as Yellen works to reverse the biggest monetary stimulus experiment ever - and investors who understand how the Fed is going to proceed have an advantage over those who don't. Hedge fund attendees have included Paul Tudor Jones of Tudor Investment Corp and David Einhorn of Greenlight Capital. Others have included Michael Novogratz of Fortress Investment Group, and Larry Robbins of Glenview Capital, as previously reported in other media. All declined to comment to Reuters. David Tepper, the hedge fund manager who earned $3.5 billion in 2013 to rank as the industry's best paid investor, said at an industry conference this week that he attended the first private dinner and peppered Bernanke with questions. But Tepper said he didn't make the best use of the information, a lapse he now regrets. "I screwed up that trade," he said. At the same conference, Novogratz from Fortress said many hedge funds that bet on big interest rate and currency movements missed a hint from Bernanke at the dinner and failed to buy long duration Treasuries. Bernanke's last major act as Fed chairman was to announce, in December, plans for the winding down of the central bank's huge stimulus, a bond-buying program called "quantitative easing," which should end by this fall. That was greeted by a sell-off in the bond market, where expectations for future interest rate levels are particularly important, because many investors believed the Fed would move on to raising interest rates in fairly short order. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note ended the year just above 3 percent, the highest since the summer of 2011. To the surprise of many, however, bonds have rallied back hard this year, driving the 10-year yield down by half a percentage point. The shift comes as more and more investors come to embrace a view Bernanke has been sharing with his dinner guests: There is just too much slack remaining in the economy to support a rise in interest rates. Still, not every guest believes they came away from a Bernanke dinner with an exclusive insight. "People can try all they want to feel that they got him to say something extra to them, but he never does," said one person who attended one of the dinners. "WE" THE FED Financial institutions, including JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt; and institutional brokerage BTIG, have hosted at least four Bernanke dinners for their clients since March, the sources said. Venues included Manhattan's Eleven Madison Park and Le Bernardin, where the four-course prix fixe menu is $135 a plate. More are expected, the sources said. JPMorgan and BTIG declined to comment. The investors have asked Bernanke about everything from how the Fed will shrink its $4.3 trillion balance sheet to why exactly it didn't start to cut bond purchases last September, when expectations were high. By most accounts, Bernanke has been candid and sometimes feisty, defending his eight-year record of steering the U.S. economy through the deepest recession in decades. Often using the pronoun "we" to describe the Fed, he has been careful not to contradict Yellen's public comments, in which she too has stressed that the labor market is far from fully healed. In its first policy statement under Yellen, in March, the central bank said the federal funds rate may need to stay below average even after it reaches its goals for employment and inflation. In one dinner-table exchange with investors, Bernanke argued that fiscal tightening, constrained financial markets and lower U.S. productivity all point to lower real rates than would be considered normal for a long time to come. Based on trading in the massive Eurodollar futures market, investors have in recent months tempered expectations of rate rises in the years ahead; as it stands, they don't expect the fed funds rate to return to 4 percent until 2022. As recently as last September, futures markets signaled they thought this would happen by the end of 2018. At the dinners, Bernanke has also argued the Fed would want to delay raising rates if the tighter financial conditions created could threaten to harm the economy. He has also stressed that financial stability concerns would more formally be considered in policy-making, according to the sources. For hedge fund managers who have big bets riding on when exactly the Fed will raise rates, dining with Bernanke is part ego and part professional necessity. The average U.S. hedge fund has returned only 0.9 percent in the first four months of the year after two consecutive months of losses in March and April, leaving many top managers on edge. (Additional reporting by Jennifer Ablan in New York; Editing by Dan Burns and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
ReutersWind and coal power go head-to-head in Germany.It didn't last long — maybe an hour or so — but for a brief, electrifying moment, the price of energy in the German electricity markets dipped below zero. The reason is demonstrated in a fascinating chart created by Bernard Chabot, a French renewable energy consultant, and published by Renewables International. Germany is one of the world leaders in renewable energy. Wind and solar power vary with the weather — and it's relatively rare for both to be cranking out full power at the same time — but May 11 was one of the exceptions: A rare windy day with glorious sunshine. As a result, in the early afternoon, the total amount of renewable power entering the grid (which also includes a bit of biomass and hydropower) met nearly three quarters of demand. BC Consult Due to regulations designed to encourage investment in clean energy, the grid is obliged to purchase every kilowatt produced by renewable sources. This creates certain challenges, since the yield varies over time. But there tends to be around 24 hours of warning before a surge from renewable power, in which case the system's operators tell the producers of conventional energy to slow production.  As Chabot explained in a Skype chat, while it's a relatively simple procedure to lower production at a natural gas plant, doing the same for a coal or nuclear plant can be difficult. So last week, rather than ramp down energy production, those plants opted to unload the extra power at firesale prices, which even briefly dipped into negative territory.  Interestingly, most of the wind farms and solar arrays in Germany are owned by private citizens, cooperatives and independent contractors. The big power companies have maintained a commitment to fossil fuels — a decision they are coming to regret.  The ability of Germany to produce so much power from renewables —  an average of 27% for Q1 of 2014 — would seem to be good news for the planet, since fossil feul has been definitively linked to climate change. Just one little problem: With America suddenly up to its armpits in natural gas due to the fracking boom, Chabot explains, "The U.S. is now exporting low-cost coal to Europe and Asia." According to Bloomberg, "Eight hard-coal power plants are scheduled to start in the next two years" in Germany. Meanwhile, the other leader in renewable energy, China — America's chief economic and geopolitical rival — just announced an ambitious plan to triple production of solar power by 2017, and to increase wind capacity by 50% in the same time frame.  Chabot points out that both Germany and China owe their success to so-called feed-in tariffs, or FITs, which offer producers of clean energy long-term contracts that guarantee a fixed price, based on costs, designed to reward investment.  The U.S. would benefit from something similar, though Chabot proposes a more politically palatable name, such as "advanced renewable rates."  But don't hold your breath. On Thursday, the Senate struck down an $85 billion tax bill because Republicans objected to a provision that would have renewed an expiring tax break for the wind industry.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stephane MaheStocks were higher Friday but still ended the week net negative. Scoreboard: Dow: 16,491.38, +44.57, +0.27%S&amp;P 500: 1,877.86, +7.01, +0.37%NASDAQ: 4,090.59, +21.30, +0.52% And now the top headlines: Don't Miss: There's A Dark Side To India's New Prime Minister That Everyone Should Know About » FREE AppDownload
Just because Jim Chanos is short China, doesn't mean he doesn't appreciate the country. In fact, he has a sick pair of Chinese yuan cuff links. He wore them as he sat on a panel at SALT Las Vegas 2014, the biggest hedge fund conference of the year. The cuff links are made by London shop Benson and Clegg. They'll turn any coin into some cuff links, you just have to bring them a coin that's been newly minted. Chanos also rocks a pair of New York state quarter cuff links he had made. The yuan's below: Business Insider   FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderLenny Kravitz at SALT 2014Thursday night was the last night of the biggest hedge fund conference of the year, SALT 2014. That means some serious partying went down. After an awesome performance from Lenny Kravitz at host hotel The Bellagio, the crowd dispersed to clubs up and down the strip. A lot of people headed to Hakkasan at the MGM, but some serious ballers stayed right at home. Both David Tepper and Jim Chanos had tables at The Bellagio's Hyde. CNBC's Melissa Lee was also there dancing her face off.   FREE AppDownload
UPDATE: The video's been removed. We still have some GIFs — see below. Earlier, we wrote about an internal Deutsche Bank video spotted by the FT that featured the firm's co-head of investment banking admonishing employees for their "vulgar" communications. Apparently, someone at Neuberger Berman, one of the world's largest employee-controlled wealth management firms ($200 billion assets under management), must have told their own employees they weren't having any fun at all.  That may help explain why a rap video featuring a dozen or so NB employees has made it on to Vimeo. Set to the tune of the Beastie Boys' "No Sleep 'Til Brooklyn," it begins: "Let me tell you something about our firm/Neuberger Berman, and we can confirm/our funds are the best around for any term, so invest with NB and you'll have no concerns." It proceeds thusly. According to the description attached to the video, the bit was part of a jingle contest. It came in second. Here are some choice GIFs:      FREE AppDownload
Pocket squares are the best way to spruce up an otherwise generic suit – here's how to master the look. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
It's well known that famed short-seller Jim Chanos is bearish on China's growth. He's said that the country is on "treadmill to hell" in terms of its finances, especially because of massive infrastructure projects that simply do not produce substantial returns. Friday at the SALT Las Vegas 2014 conference, Chanos highlighted another reason why China's economy is slowing — President Xi Jinping's anti-corruption drive. He said that the first wave of the clamp-down impacted hotels, luxury goods, gift giving, real estate, and more. He believes that alone has put a damper on China's growth. The second phase of this anti-corruption drive, says Chanos, will focus flow of money in and out of the country. That means you have to look at the areas around mainland China. "Macao is next," he said.   Macao has seen explosive growth over the last decade because of Chinese mainlanders who spend oodles of cash gambling there, but that's not all they do. According to The Congressional-Executive Commission on China Annual Report 2013,  $202 billion in "ill-gotten funds are channeled through Macau each year."  If Xi is serious about cleaning up his economy, he's going to have to iron out the wrinkles in Macao. That, then, would put a damper on Macao's growth and directly impact the gaming industry. You gotta watch out when you roll the dice. FREE AppDownload
Scott Olson/Getty ImagesJCPenney (JCP) gapped up more than 16% on Friday on strong earnings and hopes that the retail stock’s long-awaited turnaround is at last underway. In Q1, JCPenney reported a narrower loss on net sales of $2.8 billion vs. $2.64 billion a year ago, with same-store sales increasing 6.2% year-over-year and even rising sequentially over the previous quarter. This is a big deal, since a big reason JCP stock crashed and burned in 2012 and 2013 was crumbling same-store sales. JCP stock has exploded higher as a result, no doubt as a result of short sellers running for the exit; while total short interest in JCPenney had fallen from a peak of 62 million shares in September 2013 to just 16 million or so at the end of April, volume had also declined enough that the ratio of trading days to cover that interest spiked to 5.6 days — the second highest measure since July. But as the shorts wash out, the question remains: Are there any investors gutsy enough to go long in JCP stock and hang on for the ride? If there are, they are going to get a rude awakening after this initial pop fades … because JCP is still in deep trouble. Here’s why: JCP Still Unprofitable: Although JCPenney did post a narrower loss in Q1 of this year than last, it remains deeply unprofitable. In fact, the company isn’t expected to post a quarterly profit at any point through the end of fiscal 2015 according to Standard &amp; Poor’s forecasts. That means the company has an infinite forward P/E ratio, since profits don’t exist — something to remember before you talk about JCP stock being a bargain. Cash Crunch Remains: Along those lines, JCP stock remains pressured by its balance sheet and any money it has will be earmarked for stabilization — not growth. In April 2013, Goldman Sachs (GS) lent JCPenney $1.75 billion, then the company raised more than $800 million in secondary offering. But those tricks cannot be repeated, and with the company still unprofitable and saddled with long-term debts that are twice the total market cap … well, it’s not looking good for investment in growth or returning capital to shareholders via big dividends or buybacks. Stores Still Old and Unattractive: The big problem facing JCPenney is that, like its troubled peer Sears (SHLD), the locations are largely older and unattractive mall anchors that aren’t as appealing to most consumers. Retail analyst Brian Sozzi of Belus Capital Advisors advocates a “boots on the ground” strategy where he visits actual store locations to view how items are stocked, how employees treat customers and what the general shopping experience is like … and he has long maligned JCP stock as one of retail’s worst offenders when it comes to look and feel. With no profits and no cash to spend… how can JCPenney correct this in the long term? Broadly, Retail Sucks: As I wrote recently, retail sales rebounded in March but crumbled again in April. Those bulls expecting the warmer weather to usher in a big rebound in retail and consumer spending could be in for a lot of disappointment given the ugly April numbers and anemic GDP stats recently. Also, look at Walmart (WMT), which posted not just poor earnings but poor forward guidance as a sign of how trouble in the sector should continue. Remember Best Buy’s “Comeback” Story? JCP stock still is down more than 60% in two years, and about 50% in the last 12 months. This is a classic dead-cat bounce where overzealous shorts have abandoned ship — but aside from swing traders who have already made their money, the rest of us should simply be sitting this out. Does anyone really think JCP stock has another double-digit pop in it anytime soon? And even if it does, Best Buy (BBY) has showed us what happens once the comeback narrative crumbles; BBY stock jumped 245% in 2013 … then crashed 40% in short order. You better be darn sure you have further upside in JCPenney before you buy, or else you could get all of the downside volatility with none of the gains. Kudos to the traders who got in to JCP stock before this recent pop. But don’t expect the big gains of today to result in any long-term uptrend for JCPenney. Jeff Reeves is the editor of InvestorPlace.com and the author of The Frugal Investor’s Guide to Finding Great Stocks. Write him at editor@investorplace.com or follow him on Twitter via @JeffReevesIP. As of this writing, he did not own a position in any of the stocks named here. FREE AppDownload
Bad news, investors. Some of you must fail. Not probably, or unfortunately, but must. Professional, amateur. Hedge fund manager, day trader, indexer, 401(k) saver. Some of you must fail. It's a necessity of how markets work. According to Dalbar and other research groups, the average U.S. stock investor has underperformed the market by between three and seven percentage points per year during the last 30 years, depending on how it's calculated. Most of this is due to what New York Times columnist Carl Richards calls the behavior gap: a parade of dumb decisions where the average investor buys high and sells low. This classic Carl sketch sums it up: Behaviorgap.com Avoiding this behavior is the holy grail of successful investing. And some people — many people — can be taught to behave better. But the reality is that, as a group, we never can, never will. Why? Because markets must always crash. Decades ago, economist Hyman Minsky wrote about a paradox. Stability is destabilizing, he said. If stocks never crashed, we'd all think they were safe. If we all thought they were safe, we'd rationally bid up prices and make them expensive. When stocks are expensive, the inevitable whiff of danger, uncertainty, or randomness sends them crashing. So, a lack of crashes plants the seeds for a new crash. And what is a crash? It's people who bought high succumbing to selling low, falling for the same doom-loop behavior Carl's sketch portrays. The reason stocks offer great long-term returns is because they are volatile in the short run. That's the price you have to pay to earn higher returns than non-volatile assets, like bank CDs. Wharton professor Jeremy Siegel once said, "volatility scares enough people out of the market to generate superior returns for those who stay in." Those are inspirational words for investors who assume they are brave enough to stay in; but not everyone can. The volatility that sets the stage for superior returns is just a reflection of someone getting scared out of the market in real time.  Put this together, and you get an unfortunate truth that stocks offer superior returns for some because they offer a miserable experience for others. Without the misery, markets wouldn't offer big returns, and without the prospect of big returns, markets will crash and cause misery. That's why some investors must fail.  All investors I know say they'll be greedy when others are fearful. They never assume that they, themselves, will be the fearful ones. But someone has to be, by definition. With stocks at all-time highs, few people will tell you, "If my portfolio falls 20%, I'm going to panic sell and cash out." They're more likely to say that a 20% decline would be a buying opportunity. This is the right attitude, but the reason there will be a 20% crash is specifically because investors choose panic selling over opportunistic buying. My experience is that most investors who say they'll be greedy when others are fearful soon realize that they are the "others." It has to be this way: When everyone thinks they're a contrarian, at least half will be wrong. Soon after market meltdowns, journalists and financial advisors come together and ask: When will investors learn from their mistakes? How many times must we buy high and sell low before we learn to behave better? I've come to realize the answer is "never." As a group, at least. If people stopped acting dumb, markets would be stable, and if markets were stable, they'd be expensive; and when they're expensive, people act dumb. It's a feedback loop that was true 1,000 years ago and will be true 1,000 years from now. I think it's an accurate description of what a market actually is. Coming to terms with this taught me a couple things. One, nothing that most people fail at is easy, so we shouldn't assume it's easy to watch our portfolios crash and remain unshakably calm, or stay levelheaded during a big rally. When the average investor doesn't come within hailing distance of an index fund, you're fooling yourself if you think investing will be an emotional cakewalk. Over time, the investor willing to endure the steepest emotional roller coaster will win. Two, the best thing you can do to up your odds of success is to repeat to yourself, over and over again, that a market crash is not a bug or an indication that something is wrong. It is, quite literally, the admission fee for being able to earn superior long-term returns — like a stressful work project that lets you earn a big bonus. Best of luck to all of you, but my deepest sympathies to some of you. Check back every Tuesday and Friday for Morgan Housel's columns on finance and economics.  FREE AppDownload
Robert Shiller's famous cyclically-adjusted price-earnings (CAPE) ratio is telling us that the stock market looks a bit expensive these days. CAPE is calculated by taking the S&amp;P 500 and dividing it by the average of ten years worth of earnings.  If the ratio is above the long-term average of around 17x, the stock market is considered expensive. Currently, CAPE is at around 25.2, which means we could be in for a long period of low returns in the stock market. Some folks think that this means we're about to see a big sell-off or perhaps even a crash. "The trouble is that the last two times the CAPE crossed 25 (in 1996 and 2003) the bull market was just getting started and ran for another four years," notes Deutsche Bank's Stuart Kirk. In Kirk's first example, the S&amp;P 500 went from 614 in December 1995 to 1,485 in August 2000 for a 141% rally. In the second example, the S&amp;P 500 went from 1,038 in September 2003 to 1,520 in 2007 for a 46% gain. Obviously, two isn't a large enough sample that you can have any confidence in the historical pattern. But the bottom line is that corrective mean reversions in these ratios rarely happen suddenly or quickly. "Market multiples rarely trade at average levels," said Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker. Yale, Business Insider FREE AppDownload
Bespoke Investment Group is out with an informative table showing the performance of stock markets in 75 countries, ranked by year-to-date performance.  In pole position: Dubai, which has gained more than 50% on the year. Qatar, Argentina, and Bulgaria follow.  In last place: Japan and Russia, which have both fallen more than 13%. You also may want to avoid Jamaican-listed equities. The chart also shows quarter-to-date change. Check it out: Bespoke FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Francois LenoirA man stands inside the Belgian headquarters of U.S. pharmaceutical giant Pfizer, in Brussels.Shares of Pfizer halted trading on the NYSE at around 12:04 p.m. ET pending news. And then shares resumed trading at around 12:18 once the news was out. According to Bloomberg, the drug behemoth expects to submit palbociclib NDA with the FDA early in Q3 of this year. That was the announcement. Palbociclib is the compound name for a breast cancer drug in Pfizer's pipeline that has been in phase 3 trials. News of Pfizer's trading halt had a lot of folks atwitter, speculating that there was an announcement coming regarding the company's proposed takeover of AstraZeneca. The deal has attracted immense amounts of criticism in the U.S. because of tax inversion matters and in the U.K. because of the potential loss of jobs at U.K.-based AstraZeneca. "Astra Zeneca would dramatically boost Pfizer's presence in primary care (incl. respiratory and diabetes), oncology (in particular immuno-oncology candidates), and Emerging Markets, among other areas. It would also offer significant cost rationalization opportunities — Pfizer mgmt has a track record of delivering above-forecast merger cost savings," said Morgan Stanley's David Risinger last month. "However, size works against R&amp;D productivity because large entities often stifle innovation." Anyone waiting for new developments regarding the deal will just have to wait a bit longer. FREE AppDownload
Economists and journalists are increasingly turning to the topic in order to explain everything from developed countries’ relatively slow growth rates to their low level of interest rates. In my mind, this is a useful discussion. Populations’ growth rates and age profiles have been shown to have important economic and investing implications. As such, I read a post over at The Wall Street Journal’s Real Time Economics blog, Forever Young? America Stays Relatively Youthful Even as World Population Ages, with interest. The post points out that while the United States is aging, it’s aging at a much slower pace than much of the rest of the world. According to the post, by 2050, about 21% of Americans will be aged 65 and up. This compares favorably with expected levels in both Japan and Europe. In Japan, the country with the worst demographics, the percentage will be 40%. Even China, still a developing country, will be older than America, with over 26% of its population 65 and above. The good news for the United States is that a relatively young population suggests a faster growing workforce, which in turn should translate into faster economic growth, at least relative to Japan and most of Europe. However, while the United States will be younger on a relative basis, the country will still be older than it is today and much older than it was 40 years ago. The 21% of the population over 65 by 2050 compares poorly with just 13% in 2010 and less than 10% in 1970. With the U.S. population almost certain to continue to age, what are the implications for the U.S. economy and financial market? Here are three. While demographics are not destiny, they do matter for the economy and financial markets. Absent changes in birth rates, immigration, or fiscal policy, U.S. economic growth is eventually likely to be slower and fiscal strains greater. Though the United States does look to be in a better position than other developed countries, it may still fare poorly compared to its younger self. Investors who are looking to mitigate or avoid the impact of aging populations may want to consider select emerging markets with better demographic profiles such as Brazil, Indonesia and India. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Amit Dave Gujarat's chief minister Narendra Modi speaks during the "Vibrant Gujarat Summit" at Gandhinagar in the western Indian state of Gujarat January 12, 2013. Fresh off his re-election as chief minister of Gujarat and amid expectations he could contend to be the next prime minister, Modi avoided talk of a bigger political future during a state investment event. Narendra Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies have won India's general election by the biggest margin in 30 years. Modi will be sworn in as the new prime minister of India on May 21. Indian stocks surged to a record in India, with the BSE having risen as much as 6.15%, and the rupee also strengthened against the U.S. dollar. Modi has largely positioned himself as a champion of economic progress as India's economic growth has languished to 10-year lows. And one can't argue with the fact that Modi is a much more charismatic leader than Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. While there's much optimism around what a Modi win could mean for the Indian economy, there's a lot to worry about as well. Modi is a member of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) a Hindu nationalist party and has done a good job avoiding questions about his role in the deadly Gujarat Hindu-Muslim riots of 2002 that left over 1,000 dead. Modi was chief minister of the state at the time.  The riots began after a train with Hindu pilgrims was set on fire in Godhra, killing 59 people. Hindu mobs then turned on Muslims in Gujarat. In the aftermath, Modi has addressed the issue saying: "I feel sad about what happened but no guilt. And no court has come even close to establishing it." Modi only fanned the flames with his New York Times interview in 2002, in which he said his only regret was that he didn't manage the media better. Following this, the U.S. imposed a visa ban on Modi and Britain announced a 10-year boycott. The Supreme Court of India however has given him a "clean chit" — exonerating him of wrongdoing. Modi has also called for a crackdown on illegal immigrants in India. He has accused West Bengal of being soft on illegal immigration and accused it of sheltering them in order to secure votes from minorities. Sujoy Dihar at LiveMint points out that Modi has said illegal immigrants should have their "bags packed" in case he comes to power. Modi's rhetoric, and it has been argued that of the BJP, has shown an anti-Muslim bias.   In a note published earlier this year, Nomura's Alastair Newton points out that during a Feb. 23 rally in Assam, Modi called for Hindu migrants from Bangladesh to be assimilated back into India. He said non-Hindus should be sent back to their home nations. Modi's rhetoric has raised concerns about what this could mean for neighborhood politics. Indian publication LiveMint pointed to Modi's decision to contest the seat in the holy city of Varanasi as a sign that he hasn't abandoned his Hindu supremacist ideology:  "It is widely expected that Modi’s nomination from Varanasi will positively affect the outcome for the BJP in a number of other seats in Eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar which are electorally important as together the two states send 120 lawmakers to the Lok Sabha. Further, the choice of Varanasi is also symbolic in nature which indicates that the party may not have completely abandoned the Hindutva ideology." REUTERS/Ahmad Masood The company Modi keeps It isn't just Modi we need to watch, it's also the company he keeps. Amit Shah, the general secretary of BJP and former minister of home affairs in Gujarat, is Modi's closest confidante. In a profile for Caravan Magazine, Poornima Joshi, identifies Shah's sketchy past. From Joshi: "The Supreme Court has set up a special monitoring committee to probe twenty-two fake encounter deaths in Gujarat from 2002 to 2006; in four of these years, Shah was Gujarat’s home minister, and in charge of the state police. This includes the three cases in which Shah himself has been arrested and formally accused: the killings of the gangster Sohrabuddin Sheikh and his wife, and the subsequent murder of a witness.  In 2004, Gujarat state police killed Ishrat Jehan and three of her acquaintances. Shah hasn't been charged, though one of the victim's father's through a Gujarat high court has tried to get the court to arraign Shah. Two police officers accused in the case say the attack had the approval of Modi and Shah. In 2010, Shah, facing murder charges, was forced to resign. On May 15, a CBI court gave Shah a clean chit in the Ishrat Jahan case. Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) Judge Geeta Gopi said the plea couldn't be granted at this stage.* Shah has also been accused in the alleged fake encounter case of Tulsiram Prajapati, a witness to the abduction and killing of gangster Sohrabuddin Sheikh and his wife by Gujarat's Anti-Terrorism Squad. Shah and the others accused have been issued a summons by the CBI court that seeks their presence on May 23. In her profile, Joshi writes "behind the public projection of Modi’s claims to be the source of unprecedented development in the state, it is believed that the two men dominated through intimidation and force." For his part, Shah argues that he hasn't been charged with anything and that it's all part of a wider "political conspiracy" against him. As Modi takes the helm of the world's largest democracy, it's important for Indians and the international community to watch Modi and Shah's relationship unfolds. Meanwhile Giriraj Singh, a BJP leader in the Indian state of Bihar, caused a storm by saying those who oppose Modi should find themselves a home in Pakistan, not India. A comment that the BJP distanced itself from, though Modi didn't outright condemn. The economic dream Modi has come to power on the back of Gujarat's economic success during his time as chief minister of the state. But many have pointed out Gujarat's economy was doing well long before he came to power. The strong sweep by Modi and his allies suggests there's a chance that economic reforms won't be stymied every step of the way, as they were during the Congress's fractious rule. But Modi's seeming religious intolerance, his ambiguous stance on women's issues, and the implications of his rule on Indian press freedom (especially as Hindu nationalists take to the internet to intimidate Modi critics) are cause for concern. Those celebrating Modi's win should be cognizant of what his rule could mean for a democratic nation. Note* The article was amended to show that Shah got a clean chit in the Jahan case and the summons in the Prajapati case. FREE AppDownload
On stage at National Small Business Week's opening ceremonies in Washington, D.C., on Thursday night, Fed Chair Janet Yellen exhorted small business owners for their crucial role in the economic recovery.  "The Federal Reserve tries to promote the conditions that foster job creation," Yellen says, "but overwhelming it is businesses that create the jobs."  Yellen addressed a group of small business advocates and owners, including the 53 winners of Small Business Person of the Year, who were selected by the U.S. Small Business Administration from every state, plus the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and Guam.  Yellen, who was confirmed as a replacement for Ben Bernanke at the start of the year, said that since employment starting growing again in 2010, the private sector has accounted for all of the net increase in employment, given that public sector jobs shrank.  What's more, most of the increase has come from small business. Just over half of new jobs have been created by companies with less than 250 employees.  "America has come a long way since the dark days of the financial crisis," Yellen said, "and small businesses deserve a considerable share of the credit for the investment and hiring that have brought that progress." Yellen was introduced by Maria Contreras-Sweet, administrator of the SBA. She said that Yellen "shattered the glass ceiling in finance." Yellen is the first woman to chair the Federal Reserve, one of the most powerful policy-making roles in the world.  Yellen's speech marked the opening of festivities for National Small Business Week in the nation's capital. There were ceremonies in San Francisco, Kansas City, and Boston earlier in the week. Started in 1963, National Small Business Week comes with a presidential proclamation to recognize and support small business owners. The SBA provides loans, federal contracts, and strategic counseling to aspiring and current entrepreneurs. Other Small Business Week speakers include Sam Adams billionaire Jim Koch and Papa John's founder John Schnatter. Look for further coverage on Business Insider.  FREE AppDownload
NikeGenerally, earnings season wasn't too hard on footwear and athletic-apparel companies. A number of chains posted decent numbers, with some even beating expectations. Thus, it came as something of a surprise that Adidas posted such weak results in its first-quarter report. Several things weighed on the company's results, including emerging-market currency volatility, a weak sales performance in North America, and increasing competition from major rival Nike. However, the company left its outlook unchanged. What can we expect from the German athletics giant? Weak golf business, currency headwinds Adidas reported that its first-quarter profit plummeted 34% to around $283.2 million, while overall sales dipped by 6%. The business was hit particularly hard in North America, where its sales were down some 20%. Excluding currency effects, overall sales remained more or less flat for the period. Still, management did not seem too worried, as it held on to its forecast of high-single-digit sales growth for the group on a currency-neutral basis. Much of the weakness in North America was attributed to the company's TaylorMade golf division, which accounts for nearly 9% of the group's sales. For the period, TaylorMade saw sales drop by 38% and management said this partly resulted from increased discounting. However, this poor performance also stemmed from a shrinking U.S. market for golf equipment, which Adidas has responded to by altering shipping and product-release schedules. A strong euro and increased volatility in emerging-market currencies aren't helping, either. In particular, a weakened ruble weighed on the company's results. The company estimates that currency effects shaved some 50 million euros off its profits. Yet there were some bright spots. The company's own retail network saw sales rise an impressive 22% on a currency-neutral basis. Looking ahead, the upcoming World Cup in Brazil is expected to provide a huge boost to sales. To some degree, analysts had expected a weak quarter from the world's second-largest sportswear maker, with first quarters generally showing slowdowns before major sporting events such as the World Cup. As such, the company's performance is expected to improve in the remainder of the year, but the company's profit and revenue goals are considered ambitious. Nike running away with it? What may be of more concern to Adidas' shareholders than a poor first quarter is the fact that Nike is increasing its market share at the expense of Adidas. Nike has increasingly been trying to poach Adidas' business on its home turf of Western Europe, and is also taking on the German company in the soccer market, where it is still dominant. According to recent data from research firm Euromonitor, Nike increased its lead in the global sportswear market to a market share of 15% in 2013, versus Adidas' 10.8% share. Nike's market share increase is also visible in its quarterly results. In its most recent report, earnings per share were up to $0.76 from $0.73 in the year-ago quarter, beating the consensus by $0.04. Revenue also beat analysts' projections, rising 12.7% to $6.97 billion. However, Nike suffers from the same emerging-market currency headwinds as does Adidas, and uncertainty over the company's performance in China led the board to slightly lower its profit expectations for the fiscal year. Still, if Nike can manage to keep pinching market share from Adidas in its developed and emerging markets, it should be looking forward to a good year. The bottom line Adidas' most recent results point out that the company will be facing significant challenges going into the rest of the fiscal year. While this quarter's results were affected by currency volatility and certain scheduling changes, the rise of Nike in Adidas' backyard market of Western Europe and its soccer business are worrying. Nevertheless, Adidas has reiterated its full-year guidance, and is optimistic on its prospects going into the World Cup. Could this be the next big thing? This revolutionary technology could bring manufacturing jobs back to the United States...and make you a fortune while doing it! Watch The Motley Fool's special free video presentationand learn how you could make a boatload off this revolutionary technology. We've already doubled our money on these 3 stocks -- but it's not too late to get in on this incredible new technology! Click here to watch now. Daniel James has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends and owns shares of Nike. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
Golden Gate Capital just bought Red Lobster for $2.1 billion.  The chain, which was previously a part of Darden Restaurants, has struggled in recent years.  An April presentation by Red Lobster activist investor Starboard highlighted all the problems facing the seafood chain. Starboard was opposed to Red Lobster spinning off parent company Darden.  Here's what Golden Gate Capital is going to have to solve.  Declining sales. Red Lobster's sales have been declining for some time, as diners seek fast casual options like Chipotle or Panera Bread. The brand also responded to declining traffic by jacking up prices, which further exacerbated the problem, according to Starboard.   Starboard Lack of unit growth. Red Lobster has more than 700 restaurants across the U.S. With traffic declining, Red Lobster will have to focus on strengthening the core business before it can expand.  Declining margins. Red Lobster's profit margin is the worst in years because of declining traffic and higher operating costs, according to Starboard. At 9.3%, Red Lobster's margins are significantly lower than competitors like Buffalo Wild Wings and Cheesecake Factory, according to Starboard.  Commodity prices. Shrimp prices have increased to unprecedented rates recently because of production issues in Asia. Prices for white shrimp, one of Red Lobster's core menu items, soared 50%. While the prices are expected to ease up soon, Red Lobster might have to figure out other menu solutions in the near term.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid WWE shares were down as much as 42% Friday after the wrestling group announced its new online TV network won’t make up for lost pay-per-view and streaming video-on-demand business until 2015, Bloomberg reports. It was the biggest drop since its IPO. In a footnote in a company release, WWE said it could not guarantee when, "if at all," it would be able to reach the level of streaming subscribers necessary to replace PPV viewers. Here's Bloomberg's Rob Golum: The WWE Network needs 1.3 million to 1.4 million subscribers to generate enough income to replace lost earnings from pay-per-view events, the Stamford, Connecticut-based producer of wrestling entertainment shows said yesterday in a statement. The WWE Network, which began operating on Feb. 24, finished the first quarter with almost 670,000 subscribers. The company said in April it was confident the WWE Network will reach 1 million subscribers this year, a goal Chief Financial Officer George Barrios reiterated in an interview.  Golum says there's also been talk that CEO Vince McMahon may be looking to sell the company. "The issue here is that investors do not have a good understanding on the path to profitability," Paul Sweeney, a Bloomberg Industries analyst, told Golum. Shares were trading at $11.30. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsTreasury DepartmentThis week, 10-year U.S. Treasury yields broke out of their recent trading range to drop below 2.5 percent, their lowest level since October of last year. I believe, for a number of reasons, that yields could trade significantly lower, perhaps dipping as low as the 2.0 to 2.25 percent range in the coming months. Over the past few weeks I have written about the role capital flows from overseas have played in keeping U.S. interest rates low. Tensions in Ukraine and China’s devaluation of the renminbi have caused a flight to safety, which has put downward pressure on U.S. Treasury yields. The reality is, however, that these events alone do not explain the declining trajectory of interest rates. Structurally there is very strong demand for fixed-income products that is not being satiated. This demand, which is especially robust among pension funds and insurance companies, is likely to play a leading role in driving yields lower. At the same time, U.S. corporations are holding a substantial amount of cash and not feeling any great pressure to borrow money. That dynamic has caused the new corporate debt issuance calendar to lighten up. With lots of cash waiting to be invested, there is a supply-demand imbalance which is pushing the prices of everything from investment-grade corporate bonds to U.S. Treasuries higher. Most areas of U.S. fixed income, with the notable exception of asset-backed securities, municipals and bank loans, are now overvalued. Triple-C rated credit is particularly overvalued but, overall, current spreads of both investment-grade bonds and high-yield bonds have further room to compress. There is nothing significantly negative to say about prospects for the U.S. economy, especially given that interest rates are on a declining path. Mortgage rates are likely headed lower, making housing more affordable and thereby boosting consumption. Employment levels are trending higher and we are headed into the first summer in years where there is no talk of battles over the U.S. debt ceiling or of a potential federal government shutdown. Finally, several years of buoyant equities markets have boosted the wealth effect among U.S. consumers. After a tough first quarter, the U.S. economy is poised to post much stronger economic growth in the second quarter, possibly 4 percent or higher. U.S. GDP growth for the full year should come in at 3.0 to 3.5 percent. Of course, with much of the U.S. fixed-income market now overvalued, we must guard against the pitfalls of overvaluation, but, as I have said before, markets that are overvalued and then become even more overvalued are called bull markets. Improving U.S. Budget Deficit to Cut Treasury Supply Driven by strong tax receipts and continued spending cuts, the U.S. federal government budget deficit is on a rapidly improving trend. This has important economic implications over the longer term, but the near-term effect might be felt most acutely in the Treasury market. With less need to borrow, the U.S. Treasury Department will likely decrease its issuance of securities over the coming months, adding to downward pressure on yields. Our projections forecast that Treasury issuance could fall to about $350 billion over the next two quarters, about 40 percent lower than one year ago. Guggenheim Partners FREE AppDownload
The FT's Alice Ross has scrounged up this really intense internal video being passed around Deutsche Bank warning about inappropriate communications. It features Colin Fan, the co-head of the Deutsche Bank's investment banking division, sternly warning in a set of close-ups that everyone's communications are now subject to review thanks to increased regulations. But apparently, employees have been failing to change their behavior. "Some of you are falling way short of our established standards," he admonishes, and continues: "Let's be clear: being boastful, indiscreet and vulgar is not OK, and will have serious consequences for your career — and I have lost patience on this issue." Internal emails published as part of the investigation into the global Libor rate-rigging scandal infamously featured megabank employees bragging about their manipulation efforts, including one Deutsche Bank employee who discussed counterparties getting "screwed."  Despite such revelations, the language evidently persists.  Check it out. It's not very long but it gets the job done.  FREE AppDownload

Julian Finney/Getty Images When Brazil was awarded the 2014 soccer World Cup, it seemed a no-brainer that it would please the nation known as the most skilled and passionate in the world at “the beautiful game.” Brazil’s love and mastery of the ball has won a record five World Cups, and it’s often described in religious terms, as “a mecca for football,” or simply the “pais do futebol” — "soccerland." Past victories have been greeted with carnival-like celebrations from favela slums to exclusive beach resorts. But as the June 12 inaugural game of Brazil vs. Croatia nears, thousands of protesters here are saying they are not only unhappy with the tournament but actually want Brazil’s team to lose miserably.  “I’d love to see the Brazil team lose every game and be thrown out in the first round,” says Marcelo Amorim, a university researcher who has been protesting against the tournament since last year. “We already have five cups so what is one more? Right now there are more important things to worry about.” Protester Wellington Magalhaes, a resident of a favela climbing up Rio’s hills, says he will be actively cheering for Brazil’s rivals. “A victory for the Brazil team would be a victory for the government. It would be a slap in the face of the people,” Magalhaes said. “I’d like to see Brazil lose 10 to nothing. Just think of the repercussions of that.” Such antagonistic sentiments turned into confrontational demonstrations on Thursday, as thousands blocked the roads of Brazil’s biggest city, Sao Paulo, burning tires and shouting slogans against the World Cup. The angers against the tournament and team stem from a mix of grievances both over the World Cup and within Brazilian society generally. Many are enraged by the government spending some $11 billion on the tournament, while its schools and hospitals are in desperate need of repair. Others are angered by the corporate nature of the games. Brazil’s biggest stadium, the Maracana in Rio, has been effectively privatized, rented for 35 years to a consortium including one of Brazil’s richest men. Meanwhile, police forcibly evicted a group of indigenous squatters near the ground to make room for development. Soccer’s world governing body FIFA has also come under fire for its aggressive marketing demands. Brazil agreed to create zones around stadiums where only FIFA and its partners can sell goods. “Football is a passion and a love for people in the favelas. But how does this cup help the poor?” Magalhaes asked. “The Brazilian government uses football as an opium to keep people happy. Well, we are tired of that.” Perhaps his social commentary is not surprising. Even though millions have climbed out of poverty in recent years during successive left-leaning governments, Brazil still ranks among the world's most unequal countries. Many here doubt that souped-up stadiums for global soccer tourneys and the 2016 Olympics are a huge priority. However, those wishing doom on Brazil’s team may be disappointed. As home nation and with a talented generation of players, Brazil is the betting favorite to take the cup, with average odds of 3 to 1 — ahead of Argentina, Germany and reigning champSpain. But coach Luiz Felipe Scolari has already complained that protests could put players off, “big time.” “If [protests] are normal, without smashing things up, then that is democracy. But I don't know if it's the right time,” Scholari said last month. It is difficult to predict how big — or how aggressive — the demonstrations will be. During the confederations soccer tournament last year, hundreds of thousands marched against spending for the country’s mega sporting events. At times, peaceful rallies have devolved into chaotic riots and brutal crackdowns.Getty Images_Buda MendesBrazil World Cup protestors But while demonstrators are organizing against the World Cup games in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, there is little sign of marches in the other 10 host cities. The protesters also received some bad press coverage when a cameraman filming a rally in February was killed by a firecracker. Still, protesters understand that with the eyes of the world on Brazil, even small disturbances could make a lot of noise. A Sao Paulo member of a radical movement known as the Black Bloc said they aim to push through police barriers in the zones around the stadiums. “They are going to try to get into the exclusion zones by any way, and there are going to be clashes,” said the Black Bloc affiliate, who would only identify himself by the alias A.M. because of the risk of arrest. “There is a clear objective. If they get into the zone, they have won.” More from GlobalPost: Come for the World Cup, swim with the feces Outside of the protest movement, feelings toward the cup are more mixed. In a favela in Sao Paulo, laborer Higo Carvalho said he was critical of the World Cup spending but would cheer on the Brazil team. “Despite the bad things in Brazil, I am still a patriot,” Carvalho said. General enthusiasm for Brazil’s squad appears to be more muted than in recent years — with fewer people wearing T-shirts or painting the roads with the team colors. However, some believe that once the party gets started, soccer mania will return. “People here love to party and they love to be hosts,” said Matias de Padua, owner of a sportswear shop in downtown Rio. “Once the games start, and people arrive from all over the world, and there is great football being played, people are going to put aside their problems. It is going to be a carnival. And Brazil is going to win the World Cup.” FREE AppDownload
Preliminary consumer confidence data for May fell to 81.8 from 84.1, missing expectations, the University of Michigan and Thomson Reuters announced. Expectations were for a reading of 84.5. Here's the table: University of Michigan/Thomson Reuters Here's what it's looked like recently: Econoday FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderJC Penney shares were up as much as 16% in early trading after the retailer reported sales that beat estimates. Same-store sales climbed 6.2%, compared with forecasts for 4.2%. Net sales came in at $2.8 billion compared with expectations for $2.7 billion. Gross margin for the quarter came in at 33.1%, in line with expectations. Loss per share came in at $1.16, which was narrower than the $1.25 loss expected by analysts. The company announced it had received a new, larger credit line. Sterne Agee's Chuck Grom says it's the first time in 30 months Penney reported positive same-store sales growth in April, and that some of it may have been driven up by Easter. But he offered four reasons for remaining bullish: 1) the absolute comp of 6.2% was better than our model (+2.0) and a touch higher than buy-side real expectations of ~4.0% – favorably the trend improved throughout the quarter – echoing sentiment we have heard from most department stores (by category women’s/men’s apparel, home, and fine jewelry were called out); (2) we were impressed that JCP was able to reduce inventory levels, which were up only 1.3% at the end of the quarter versus the company’s sales increase of 6.3%; (3) SG&amp;A expenses remain well controlled, down significantly YOY, fueling much of the aforementioned EPS beat; and (4) JCPenney reiterated its $2.0B liquidity outlook for year end and replaced its existing $1.85B ABL Bank Line with a new $2.35B senior secured ABL credit facility. (The program is constrained by the borrowing base; i.e. when inventory levels are lowest; JCP will not be able to tap the entire amount.)  Shares were trading as high as $9.75. FREE AppDownload
Longer lifespans and lower birthrates in recent years have led to a U.S. population that has almost as many people over age 85 as under age 5. America is already seeing its over-60 population grow, thanks in large part to aging Baby Boomers, and a map from the Global AgeWatch Index shows that the trend is far from over. In 2012, less than 20% of the U.S. population was over 60 years old. But by 2050, people over age 60 are expected to account for 25-29% of the U.S. population. Other countries are expected to follow a similar upward trend. Check it out: Global AgeWatch Index Latin America, the Caribbean, and Asia will see some of the largest differences in population by 2050: Global AgeWatch Index 2013 In 2012, 809 million people, or 11% of the world's population, were over 60. By 2050, about 2 billion people are expected to be over 60, which represents 22% of the world's population. Pew Research Center has pointed out that this is "uncharted territory" for humanity and that the aging population is likely to create political and economic stress as a smaller number of working adults will be expected to finance retirements for larger numbers of older people.
Reuters/Mike BlakeThe pace of U.S. housing starts surged 13.2% to 1,072,000 in April from 947,000 in March. This was much stronger than the 980,000 pace expected. Building permits jumped 8.0% to 1,080,000, which was also stronger than expected. The strength continues to be coming from multi-family homes. From the Census: Single-family housing starts in April were at a rate of 649,000; this is 0.8 percent (±10.8%)* above the revised March figure of 644,000. The April rate for units in buildings with five units or more was 413,000. Single-family [permits] in April were at a rate of 602,000; this is 0.3 percent (±0.8%)* above the revised March figure of 600,000. Authorizations of units in buildings with five units or more were at a rate of 453,000 in April. Multi-family homes have become increasingly popular in the wake of the housing market crash. Scarred by the memory of collapsing prices, many prospective homebuyers have opted to rent. "The headlines look great but all the action is in the hyper-volatile multi-family components," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson. "The multi-family trend is rising, by contrast, reflecting strong rental demand, though the April number overstates the underlying pace and will partly correct in May." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Keith Bedford (Reuters) - Darden Restaurants Inc &lt;DRI.N&gt; said it agreed to sell its Red Lobster seafood chain to private equity firm Golden Gate Capital for $2.1 billion in cash, defying pressure from an activist investor who opposed plans to shed the struggling chain. Darden's shares were up marginally before the bell. Hedge fund Starboard Value LP had opposed a sale or spinoff of Red Lobster, saying such a move could destroy as much as $800 million of shareholder value. Darden said on Friday that it expects net cash proceeds of about $1.6 billion from the sale, of which about $1 billion would be used to retire debt. The remainder would be used to buy back up to $700 million of shares in fiscal 2015, Darden said. Darden, the biggest U.S. operator of full-service restaurants, has been battling competition from so-called "fast-casual" restaurants such as Chipotle Mexican Grill &lt;CMG.N&gt; and Panera Bread &lt;PNRA.O&gt;. Red Lobster, whose same-restaurant sales have fallen in five of the last six quarters, contributed about 31 percent of Darden's total revenue in 2013. Another activist investor, Barington Capital Group LP had pressed Darden to put its more-mature Red Lobsterand Olive Garden chains into one company, and its higher-growth chains, including LongHorn Steakhouse andCapital Grille, into another. Starboard declined to make an immediate comment, while Barington was unavailable. Darden, which expects the deal to close in the first quarter of 2015, said it explored several options to separateRed Lobster, but concluded that the Golden Gate deal maximized the value of the business and its real estate assets. Darden's shares closed at $50.69 on the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co is Darden's exclusive financial adviser, while Latham &amp; Watkins is its legal counsel. Morgan Stanley is the financial adviser to Darden's board, while Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen &amp; Katz is its legal adviser. Deutsche Bank Securities Inc and Jefferies LLC are Golden Gate's financial advisers. Deutsche Bank Securities Inc, GE Capital and Jefferies Finance LLC are providing debt commitments for the acquisition. (Reporting by Maria Ajit Thomas in Bangalore; Editing by Savio D'Souza) FREE AppDownload
Circle Recently we wrote about all the problems that still plague how we make payments in 2014.  Bitcoin was supposed to address many of them — the costliness of sending money (especially small amounts), the lack of security, cumbersome receipts  — but the Bitcoin ecosystem that's developed to this point has itself been largely disappointing and/or self-defeating, with much of it has been focused exclusively on profit seeking. Circle hopes to be at the vanguard of bringing Bitcoin out of this speculative era and into a more useful one. We wrote about them a couple months ago, when they said they wanted to be the Skype of Bitcoin — a ubiquitous service with a core feature that is totally free, almost like a utility. Today, at the Bitcoin2014 Conference in Amsterdam, they officially launched their service on an invitation-only basis. The idea is that you can be your own bank — storing money, sending and receiving payments  — all in Bitcoin. But the Bitcoin part will be mostly in the background. Whereas other Bitcoin wallet services, like Coinbase, take several days to process an order to buy Bitcoin — and do some with a defacto commission fee, Circle instantly converts your fiat into Bitcoin, for free.  "Your balances are in dollars, you're sending money in dollars," CEO Jeremy Allaire told us recently. "That will make more sense for the average person who would say, Why would I want Bitcoin, what can I do with that that I can't already do?" The service is free, and comes with insurance, although Allaire says users will have a "risk score" attached to their identities that will determine how much of the digital asset users will be able to instantly access. And you'll still have to submit information about your fiat debit account, although that is also the case with Coinbase, the largest Bitcoin wallet service. That of course creates another huge breach with one of Bitcoin's ostensible initial purposes: complete anonymity. Allaire observes most mainstream customers don't possess the libertarian streak of Bitcoin's earliest adopters.  "It has all these features that will make sense to people and will resonate with people," he said, "but it’s not about overthrowing world governments or undermining the banking system or things like that. It’s about how do you do something that's faster, cheaper, easier, et cetera." Circle is backed by an interesting mix of Valley and Bitcoin funds, including ones run by Jim Breyer, an early Facebook investor, and SecondMarket's Barry Silbert. Circle now has a large enough capital base to both not have to charge consumers to use the base-line service and to be able to to pay for all the risk, security and compliance that goes into creating this kind of service. Allaire says the primary up-front benefit will be sending free and instant global money transfers, and does not expect overnight adoption. To truly take off, he said, Bitcoin must go from a few hundred thousands actual users of Bitcoin worldwide, which he admitted was "startingly" few given the amount of media attention the digital currency has received, to hundreds of millions. But it has to start somewhere, and Allaire believes Circle can lead the way. FREE AppDownload
1 in 4 women haven't asked for a raise in the past year. Here are some of the common mistakes that women tend to make when asking for the raise they deserve. Produced by Justin Gmoser.  Follow BI: On Twitter
Thomson ReutersPhoto illustration of Euro notes at a bank in SeoulFRANKFURT (Reuters) - Banks will return 6.155 billion euros ($8.44 billion) in long-term crisis loans to the European Central Bank next week, more than this week and than was expected as banks trim down their reliance on ECB funding and return to the markets. The amount banks will repay on May 21 is more than this week's repayments of 3.365 billion euros, and above the 3.5 billion forecast in a Reuters poll. &lt;ECB/REFI&gt; Banks are voluntarily offloading the crisis loans they took from the ECB in late 2011 and early 2012 in anticipation of Europe-wide bank stress tests, which will over the next couple of months check how the lenders hold up under certain scenarios. The tests are part of a broader balance sheet review done by ECB before it takes over as bank supervisor in November. The repayments have reduced the amount of spare cash in the system to levels that have started to put upward pressure on overnight bank-to-bank lending rates. EONIA has shot above the ECB's main rate of 0.25 percent several times now, but stood at 0.172 percent on Thursday. Excess liquidity, which is the measure of money that banks have beyond what they need for their day-to-day operations, stood at 113 billion euros on Friday, recovering from 74 billion euros last week as banks adjust their funding. ECB President Mario Draghi pointed out last week that recent volatility in short-term money market rates had not spilled over into the medium-term and that more liquidity in the EONIA market was to some extent a positive sign as banks were going back to the market and fragmentation was receding. "In other words, banks rely less on the ECB and more on each other," Draghi said in the post policy meeting news conference. On Friday, the ECB said three banks would repay 5.005 billion euros from the first LTRO on May 21, and two banks would pay back 1.15 billion from the second LTRO. (Reporting by Eva Taylor; Editing by Toby Chopra) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Amit DaveSupporters of Hindu nationalist Narendra Modi, the prime ministerial candidate for India's main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), shower confetti from atop a bus in the western Indian city of Ahmedabad.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Modi Landslide. They're still counting the roughly 800 million votes in India. But the exit polls are signaling that India's opposition leader Narendra Modi will be the country's next prime minister in what will be a landslide victory. Modi is widely considered the man with the vision to get India's economy humming again. The Importance Of A Landslide. "We considered a decisive majority as probably the best scenario, or our bull case for the market," wrote Morgan Stanley's Ridham Desai. "This election result could herald a sea change for India’s economy, which has struggled with stagflationary-type conditions over the past few years. We think the incoming government will have to de-anchor inflation, raise capital productivity, improve the investment climate and de-lever private balance sheets to engineer a new growth cycle." Markets Are Mixed. At one point, India's Sensex index had surged 6.1% to an all-time high. It has since settled up 0.9%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed down 1.4% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed down 0.1%. In Europe, markets are trading modestly lower with Britain's FTSE 100 down 0.3%, France's CAC 40 down 0.4%, and Germany's DAX down 0.7%. U.S. futures are slightly in the red. Smart Money Have Switched To Verizon. The big institutional investors disclosed their big investments via 13-F filings with the SEC on Thursday afternoon. "Billionaire investors Warren Buffett, Daniel Loeb and John Paulson made a connection on Verizon Communications Inc. as their firms separately picked up stakes in the telecommunications firm amid a wave of deal-making in the sector," reported the WSJ's Anupreeta Das and Juliet Chang. During the reporting period, Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway and David Einhorn's Greenlight Capital dumped shares of GM. An Uber Valuation. Car-service app Uber could be worth over $10 billion, reports Bloomberg's Serena Saitto. Management "is in talks to raise new financing in a round that may value it at more than $10 billion, according to people with knowledge of the situation," wrote Saitto. "Uber is discussing raising less than $1 billion with new private equity investors, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public." JC Penney's Comeback. Shares of the beleaguered department store chain exploded on Thursday afternoon after the company reported its Q1 financial results. The key metric appears to be same-store sales, which jumped 6.2%, beating expectations for a 4.2% gain. "JC Penney is sucking in a good bit of mall traffic via a combination of effective promotional messaging (we are seeing more consistent promotions in the store, not intra-quarter spikes in worrying “% off signs” as was evident during the holidays), better in stocks on name brand merchandise and basics, and stores that are finally cohesive in terms of layout (home department finagling has concluded)," said retail analyst Brian Sozzi of Belus Capital Advisors. Eurozone Trade Balance. The Eurozone's trade surplus expanded to €17.1 billion in March from €14.2 billion the month prior. This was stronger than the 16.0 billion euros forecasted by economists. "The trade balance is mainly helped by a healthy surplus in Germany and the Netherlands," noted Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. "The biggest surpluses for the eurozone are recorded with the US and UK and the surplus with the UK is now higher than with the US. Given the lagged effects of a stronger EURUSD, we would expect the trade balance relative to the US gradually to come under pressure this year, but so far the UK is picking up the baton." An Update On The Housing Market. Economists estimate the pace of starts climbed 3.6% to 980,000 in April as while permits climbed 1.3% to 1.010 million. "Building permits for single family homes, although higher in March, are still running below the pace of single family starts," said BofAML economists. "We therefore think the risk is that single family starts slip to better match the rate of permits. This would also be consistent with the weak signal from the NAHB housing index and sharp drop in single family new home sales. It appears that the spring selling season has kicked off to a slow start. Multifamily starts are likely to improve, although the data are extremely choppy on a monthly basis." The report will be published at 8:30 a.m. ET. An Update On Consumer Confidence. Economists estimate the preliminary estimate of this sentiment index climbed to 84.5 in May from 84.1 in April. "Our forecast would be close to the cycle high (July 2013 at 85.1)," said Credit Suisse economists who forecast an 85.0 print. "The revision to the final April reading suggests sentiment improved steadily through the month of April, so May has the wind at its back. Positive headlines from the May employment report should also be supportive." The report will be published at 9:55 a.m. ET. Keep An Eye On Rates. The big market story these days is arguably what's happening in Treasury securities. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note continues to tumbled despite Wall Street's expectations for it to rise. Currently its at 2.49%. "If we go down [more] on Treasury yields, we will see one of the biggest short-covering scrambles of all time," said bond fund manager Jeffrey Gundlach on Wednesday in San Diego. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Danish SiddiquiNarendra Modi. When it comes to elections, it's not about whether you win or lose. It's about whether you crushed your opponents. And according to the exit polls, that's exactly what opposition leader Narendra Modi appears to have done in India's election for prime minister. "The votes are still being counted but Narendra Modi appears to be on the cusp of a historic victory in India’s election that could deliver an outright majority to his party, the BJP," wrote Capital Economics' Mark Williams and Miguel Chanco. "At the very least, the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) will have a large majority. Either result would give a significant boost to hopes for economic reform." Modi has been widely acknowledged as the champion for economic progress, something the BRIC economy desperately needs as it struggles to achieve growth. India, however, is notorious for its inability to push through reforms. It can also be a nightmare to operate a business in the country (there's a magazine circulating in India called Bureaucracy Today). As such, it was crucial that Modi win big. "The equity and currency markets have chosen to be optimistic about policy action and growth implications in the coming 12 months," wrote Ridham Desai, Morgan Stanley's India equity strategist. At its high of the day, India's Sensex index exploded 6.1% to an all-time high of 25,375.63. "We considered a decisive majority as probably the best scenario, or our bull case for the market," wrote Desai. "This election result could herald a sea change for India’s economy, which has struggled with stagflationary-type conditions over the past few years. We think the incoming government will have to de-anchor inflation, raise capital productivity, improve the investment climate and de-lever private balance sheets to engineer a new growth cycle." But it's still important to manage your expectations. "The new government won’t have everything its way since power is dispersed in India," added Williams and Chanco. "Many reforms require the cooperation of state government. Nonetheless, the new government will without a doubt be in a stronger position to push through reforms than anyone had thought likely even a week ago. The onus will now be on Mr Modi to demonstrate that investors are right to put their faith in him." Bloomberg.com FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidMarkets are somewhere between flat and mixed right now. Britain's FTSE is up 0.1%. France's CAC is flat. Germany's DAX is flat. Spain's IBEX is up 0.4% Italy's FTSE MIB is up 1%. Overnight, Japan's Nikkei closed down 1.4% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed down by around 0.1%. As expected, it looks like opposition party leader Narendra Modi will win India's election by a landslide. Known as a champion of economic progress, markets have received him with open arms. Earlier today, the Bombay Sensex index exploded 6% to an all-time high of 25,375.63 before coming back a bit. Later today, we'll get two economic reports in the U.S. Here's the preview via BI's Monday Scouting Report: U.S. futures aren't doing much ahead of the Friday trading session. Dow futures are down 8 points. S&amp;P futures are flat. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonNEW YORK (Reuters) - Two years ago, Denver-based oil and gas driller Bonanza Creek Energy &lt;BCEI.N&gt; wanted to spread its credit risk and hedge its production - and it called on some regional Main Street banks to help do it. It ended up with a group of banks, including several names little-known in commodity circles until recently. Ohio-based KeyCorp &lt;KEY.N&gt; led the lenders and was also among the banks providing hedging. Traditionally, Wall Street's big banks were the go-to providers of such services, but since the financial crisis and the introduction of tougher regulations, they have been pulling back. At the same time, regional banks, more used to serving consumers and small and midsize businesses in the communities they serve, have been growing their energy and commodity lending and hedging businesses. Soaring U.S. oil and gas production resulting from the use of fracking technology in states such as North Dakota has encouraged the regional banks. "In the past, you didn't have those banks in there and they are definitely beginning to fill the void left by some of the big guys that are beginning to pull in some of their tentacles," said Bill Cassidy, Bonanza Creek's chief financial officer. "The more competition you have, the better it is for someone like myself." The measured expansion of these regional banks, which has not been previously reported, highlights the emergence of new competition in the commodities markets. Other new rivals offering to lend and hedge include Australian bank Macquarie &lt;MQG.AX&gt; to the risk management arms of agribusiness giant Cargill and oil major BP &lt;BP.L&gt;. Last year, the top 10 regional banks active in the space together held an average of $23 billion in commodity derivatives contracts on their books, up nearly 50% from their holdings in 2009, according to a Reuters analysis of quarterly regulatory data from Thomson Reuters Bank Insight. This is still minuscule relative to the $3.9 trillion in commodity derivatives that the top six Wall Street banks still controlled, according to the data, though that sum has barely risen over four years. Bonanza Creek, which drills for oil and gas in Colorado and Arkansas, has a credit line with the KeyCorp-led group of 10 banks, which also include Wall Street giants JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt; and Wells Fargo &lt;WFC.N&gt;, as well as other regional institutions such as IBERIABANK Corp. &lt;IBKC.O&gt; and Cadence Bank &lt;CMMBRB.UL&gt;. It has hedging arrangements with five banks. Even modest inroads can be meaningful for regional banks expanding in the sector, as it allows them to "pop out and create some incremental revenue growth," said Marty Mosby, banking analyst at Guggenheim Partners. Indeed, the proportion of KeyCorp's new derivatives business that is commodities-related is now about 25%, up from nothing in 2006 when the business started, said Matthew Milcetich, its head of derivatives "It is a meaningful percentage of our new business volumes," he said. REUTERS  CHIPPING AWAY New techniques for drilling wells have made it possible to extract more crude and natural gas from shale formations in North Dakota, Texas, Pennsylvania, and a handful of other energy-rich states. The boom has also fed the need for more loans and risk management for energy producers, who use derivatives to protect themselves from swings in commodity prices. As of December 2013, 24 banks reported having at least some commodity derivatives exposure on their books, according to the Reuters analysis of "commodity and other" derivatives holdings reported to the Federal Reserve by bank holding companies. Of those 24, seven are global megabanks, such as Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt; and Goldman Sachs &lt;GS.N&gt;. The rest range from Midwest regional banks to the domestic arms of Israeli and Dutch groups. The list isn't exhaustive, as it excludes some foreign banks that are not subject to Fed supervision, like Sydney-based Macquarie, and some smaller banks don't file holding company data. The only regional bank on the list that was active a decade ago is BOK Financial Corp. &lt;BOKF.O&gt;, parent company of the Bank of Oklahoma, long known as "the oil bank of America" thanks to its roots in the state's oil industry. "We live, eat, and breathe this business, and we've been doing it since 1910," said Bob Lehman, senior vice president at Bank of Oklahoma. BOKF offers a "high-touch service" that attracts many small oil producers, who want something "much more relationship-driven than one of the Wall Street banks, where they'll just be another number," he said. Nine of the 50 employees in its energy division are petroleum engineers, he added. Still, even BOKF's commodities derivatives book - $2.7 billion at the end of 2013 - is tiny next to a rival like Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt;, which reported $545 billion. Other companies are growing in the sector through their lending businesses. Fifth Third Bancorp &lt;FITB.O&gt;, another Ohio bank, began building up a team to provide commodities hedging services in 2006, but expanded into energy lending in 2012 by hiring seven bankers from Lloyds Banking Group &lt;LLOY.L&gt;, a British bank that was refocusing its strategy around U.K.-linked clients. "Energy's been on the drawing board for the last eight or nine years," said Kevin Lavender, Fifth Third's managing director of corporate banking. Today, Fifth Third's energy banking team manages $2 billion in capital commitments across all segments of the energy sector, according to energy banking group head Richard Butler. LET'S NOT GET PHYSICAL? Like KeyCorp and BOKF, Fifth Third does not trade physical commodities, relying on purely financial commodities trading for its hedging services. That doesn't bother folks like Jim Finley, who runs an eponymous Texas-based oil and gas company that has a $500 million credit facility with eight, mostly regional banks, including Fifth Third. "We have never traded physicals with any bank," he said. "Regionals know the space really well." The ability to deal in barrels of crude oil or piped natural gas was once a big selling point for Wall Street's giants. But several major banks, including JPMorgan, have announced they are quitting the business due to sliding margins, and tougher regulation, including from the Federal Reserve. Wall Street rivals have often run physical trading desks or owned storage terminals, warehouses and other infrastructure assets. These businesses are supposed to help them gain market heft and intelligence that help them trade profitably and provide other kinds of services to customers. But if the little guys can provide the same services without running such empires, they could start to change the structure of the business. Wall Street banks, including Goldman Sachs, and some consumers of commodities have warned that limiting banks' ability to take or make delivery of raw materials would make it harder for them to properly serve their clients. For example, the treasurer of oil refiner PBF Energy &lt;PBF.N&gt;, John Luke, recently wrote a comment letter to the Fed claiming that limiting banks' ability to trade in physical commodity markets would "make it very difficult for end-users of physical commodities to efficiently transact in these markets and effectuate hedging strategies." The question is whether such physical trading is an absolute requirement - or simply a way to maximize earnings from such deals. "There is a pocket of smaller financial institutions who are clearly providing their clients these types of services and yet they are not playing big in the physical market," said Saule Omarova, a law professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. (Reporting By Cezary Podkul and Anna Louie Sussman; Editing by Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCanada's PM Harper speaks during Question Period in the House of Commons on Parliament Hill in OttawaOTTAWA/TORONTO (Reuters) - Canada broke with the United States and did not impose sanctions on two key allies of Russian President Vladimir Putin because the pair had Canadian business interests, according to sources familiar with the matter. The revelation puts into question the government's tough line on Russia over the crisis in Ukraine. Prime Minister Stephen Harper recently compared Putin's actions to those of Adolf Hitler in the run-up to World War Two. Canada, home to 1.2 million people of Ukrainian descent, has imposed sanctions on more than 80 Russian and Ukrainian officials and businesses, compared to about 60 by the United States. But unlike the United States, Canada has not moved against Sergei Chemezov, who heads state-owned industrial and defense conglomerate Rostec, and Igor Sechin, CEO of oil giant Rosneft. Both men, who are close to Putin, have business ties to Canada. Rosneft owns some 30 percent of a Canadian oil field, while Rostec has an aircraft assembly joint venture lined up with Bombardier Inc. The venture is vital to the Canadian plane and train maker, as the fate of a roughly $3.4 billion aircraft sale deal is tied to it. Asked about the decision not to go after either Sechin or Chemezov, a Canadian government source familiar with Ottawa's sanctions strategy told Reuters: "Our goal is to sanction Russia, it is not to go out of our way to sanction or penalize Canadian companies." The comments appear to contrast with the official government approach. Harper, referring to the Ukraine crisis, said in March that "we will not shape our foreign policy to commercial interests" and officials say that stance is still valid. Indeed, the Conservative government on Wednesday called on business executives not to attend events in Russia, like the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum this month and the World Petroleum Congress in Moscow in June. "We will continue to apply pressure to Russia, we will continue to impose sanctions along with our allies, but we will also look out for Canada's broader interests," the government source said. Canada's official opposition New Democrats said the failure to target Chemezov and Sechin undermined the case for sanctions. "It's egregious. I think this is not consistent with what the government's rhetoric is on getting tough with the Russians and getting tough with Putin," the party's foreign affairs spokesman Paul Dewar said. In Europe, some leaders have also tempered their criticism of Moscow, in a sign they, too, are worried about business ties with Russia, a major provider of oil and gas to the region. But Harper took a strong line from the start, castigating Putin and pushing the effort to have Russia kicked out of the Group of Eight leading industrialized nations. CEO LOBBIES OTTAWA As Ottawa developed its sanctions policy, it was being lobbied by top officials from Bombardier, which is one of Canada's major industrial players. The company last year signed a preliminary deal to sell 100 short-haul aircraft in Russia and agreed to set up an assembly line for the planes in that country, in partnership with Rostec. Bombardier also has other interests in Russia, including a long-standing joint venture in its rail business. Canada's official registry of lobbyists shows Bombardier CEO Pierre Beaudoin reported six meetings in March with government officials, including Transport Minister Lisa Raitt and Industry Minister James Moore. One source familiar with the discussions said Bombardier did not specifically ask the government to keep Chemezov off the sanctions list but stressed the ramifications that punitive measures could have on its business interests in Russia. Three of the meetings took place on March 4 and one on March 7. After Canada announced sanctions in mid-March, Bombardier again met with senior officials on March 20 and 27. Bombardier declined to comment on the specifics of its lobbying efforts in Ottawa but said the discussions revolved around its extensive overseas interests, among other matters. A spokeswoman said the firm remained hopeful about the joint venture with Rostec, but acknowledged the current political environment was likely to delay its timeline. The registry of lobbyists showed no record of Rosneft representatives meeting with the Canadian government in March. But a third well-placed source, familiar with sanctions planning, confirmed the decision to exclude both Chemezov and Sechin was made because of Canada's commercial interests. Rosneft owns 30 percent of an Exxon Mobil Corp oil field in the western province of Alberta, where it is learning the horizontal drilling and fracturing techniques that have revolutionized the North American oil industry. Canada coordinates sanctions closely with the United States, which described Chemezov as a trusted Putin ally and said Sechin "has shown utter loyalty" to the Russian leader. Outwardly, Canada's reluctance to impose sanctions on the pair does not appear to have caused tensions with its neighbor. A White House official said the United States valued its cooperation with Canada and other partners. In Moscow, spokespeople for both Rosneft and Rostec declined to comment. (With additional reporting by Megan Davies in Moscow, Jeff Mason in Washington and Scott Haggett in Calgary; Editing by Jeffrey Hodgson and Ross Colvin) FREE AppDownload
DisneyBrock Pierce was Disney's "First Kid"SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - As the most prominent trade group pushing adoption of the electronic currency Bitcoin begins its annual conference on Friday, it is being roiled by controversy. At least 10 members of the nonprofit Bitcoin Foundation have resigned over last week's election of onetime Disney child star and current Bitcoin entrepreneur and financier Brock Pierce as a new director, officials at the group said. Some of the members cited Pierce's troubled past. That includes allegations in lawsuits from three employees of Pierce's first company, bankrupt web video business Digital Entertainment Network, that he provided drugs and pressured them for sex when they were minors. Pierce has denied the accusations, which first surfaced in 2000. "The allegations against me are not true, and I have never had intimate or sexual contact with any of the people who made those allegations," Pierce told Reuters via email. Court records show 33-year-old Pierce, who played the title role in Disney's "First Kid," paid more than $21,000 to settle one employee suit, and he said others dropped their claims without money changing hands. While Bitcoin Foundation officials played down the defections, several members who resigned from the Foundation assailed its governance track record. "The track record of prominent Bitcoin Foundation members has been abysmal," said Patrick Alexander, a resigning Foundation member in a post on its discussion pages. "I no longer want to be associated with these people." Attempts to reach him for additional comment were unsuccessful. Though it is highly volatile, the value of the electronic currency in existence has skyrocketed into the billions of dollars as the number of businesses accepting it has increased and investors have sought to create new ways for it to be used. More than 1,000 Bitcoin investors, business people and enthusiasts are expected to attend the conference in Amsterdam. The programming effort that governs how Bitcoin works is led by Gavin Andresen, who is chief scientist at the Foundation and gets a salary from it. The Foundation also plays an important role for Bitcoin in lobbying on its behalf in various jurisdiction as authorities grapple with how to police the semi-anonymous currency. CALL TO VET CANDIDATES Other members who resigned called on the board to more carefully vet future candidates as well as remove Pierce from the board. Bitcoin Foundation General Counsel Patrick Murck said that his group had more than 1,500 members and would bounce back from the latest controversy. "Democracy is messy sometimes," Murck said. "If in the future members decide they want to have a vetting process, that's great." Some Bitcoin Foundation members say they weren't aware of Pierce's past until after the election, when others circulated media accounts concerning the allegations. Pierce was voted in by the Foundation's industry members, who pay higher dues, to fill one of two spots vacated by others who had resigned: Mark Kapeles, chief executive of the bankrupt top Bitcoin exchange Mt. Gox, and Charlie Shrem, who has been charged with conspiring to launder money for users of the shuttered Silk Road underground drug bazaar. Pierce has made a splash in the insular Bitcoin world by backing more than a dozen startups, speaking frequently at conferences, and leading a bid to buy Mt. Gox for one Bitcoin, currently worth less than $500. Bitcoin startups have attracted investment from some venture capital firms and from individuals through "crowdfunding," in which many amateurs support projects, often with small investments and without the due diligence typically conducted by professional investors. Pierce has been a major beneficiary of the trend, garnering pledges of more than $700,000 for his investment syndicate on the crowdfunding site AngelList. Cyan Banister, a startup CEO who made a nonbinding pledge of $5,000 to Pierce's investing syndicate, after learning of the allegations said she would withdraw from his group. Phil Sanderson, an IDG Ventures investor in San Francisco who follows Bitcoin, said that the currency's growth was being hindered by the lack of effective public faces. "Bitcoin hasn't really had a strong, vocal leader with a great background," he said. (Reporting by Joseph Menn; Editing by Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Amit DaveSupporters of Hindu nationalist Narendra Modi, the prime ministerial candidate for India's main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), shower confetti from atop a bus in the western Indian city of Ahmedabad May 15, 2014. NEW DELHI (Reuters) - Opposition candidate Narendra Modi will be the next prime minister of India, with counting trends showing the pro-business Hindu nationalist and his party headed for the most resounding election victory the country has seen in thirty years. Modi's landslide win was welcomed with a thundering rally on India's stock markets and raucous celebrations at offices across the country of his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), where supporters danced, exploded fireworks and handed out sweets. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, whose Congress party headed for a crushing defeat, telephoned Modi to congratulate him on his success, the prime minister's office said. Crowds surged around Modi's car after he visited his mother's home in the western state of Gujarat. He sent a message saying "India has won," that instantly set a record as the country's most retweeted Twitter post. "I'm so happy because all of India wanted a strong government," said software engineer Vinod Rai as he embraced friends and shouted in joy at the BJP's Delhi headquarters, his forehead smeered with vermillion red. The party was headed for a majority in parliament, giving Modi the most decisive mandate for any leader since the 1984 assassination of prime minister Indira Gandhi propelled her son to office. Since 1989, India has been governed by coalitions. The BJP was winning in 277 seats of the 543-seat parliament, counting trends showed. An alliance led by the party was ahead in 336 seats, TV channel NDTV said. Responding to the news Indian markets got off to a roaring start, with the rupee breaking below 59 to the U.S. dollar, an 11-month high, and the benchmark stock index jumped 6 percent before paring its gains. Betting on a Modi win, foreign investors have poured more than $16 billion into Indian stocks and bonds in the past six months and now hold over 22 percent of Mumbai-listed equities - a stake estimated by Morgan Stanley at almost $280 billion. Unlike his predecessors, Modi will not have to deal with unruly partners as he implements reform. That could usher in profound economic changes, and he will try to replicate his success in attracting investment and building infrastructure in Gujarat, the state he has governed for 12 years. "He can afford to have a smaller but stronger cabinet, that means a far more decisive government. He has been saying less government and more governance, we are really likely to see that," said Navneet Munot, Chief Investment Officer at SBI Funds management in Mumbai. But with India's economy suffering its worst slowdown since the 1980s and battling high inflation, it will not be an easy task to meet the hopes of millions of Indians who have bought into the idea that Modi will quickly push their country onto the top table of global economic powers. "People will not give him much time to deliver," said Neerja Chowdhury, a political analyst and a former political editor of the Indian Express newspaper. "On the economic reform agenda, I think he will move very quickly ... he's a doer and he's very focused." DESIRE FOR CHANGE The 63-year-old's promises of job creation and clean, efficient government resonated with many of the half a billion people who braved blistering summer heat to vote in the world's biggest election over the last five weeks. Since being named as his party's candidate last September, Modi has flown 300,000 km and addressed 457 rallies in a slick, presidential-style campaign that has broken the mould of Indian politics. Modi's media-savvy, modern campaign ran circles round his slow-footed rival, Rahul Gandhi, 43, from the Congress party. The Congress, which led India to independence from Britain, was headed for its worst-ever result after two terms in office marred by corruption and a floundering economy. Prime Minister Singh, who as finance minister launched reforms in 1991 that brought an end to decades of economic isolation, has already bid farewell to his staff after ten years in office marked by mounting policy paralysis. The desire for change has been so strong that voters put aside concerns about Modi's Hindu-centric politics. A dark chapter of violence against Muslims on his watch has mattered less and less to many, including a bulging middle class alarmed by dwindling purchasing power and job opportunities as the economy slumped to sub-five percent growth in the last two years. Gandhi was leading by a slender margin in his seat of Amethi, a family bastion that has been held in turn by his uncle, father and mother, Sonia. A loss there would spell disaster for the great grandson of India's independence leader. Modi has promised that, if elected, he would take decisive action to unblock stalled investments in power, road and rail projects to revive economic growth. Tax and labor market reforms, backed by a gradual opening up to foreign investment, would seek to create the 10 million jobs that Asia's third-largest economy must create every year to employ young people entering the workforce. Modi watched the results on TV at his home in Gujarat then met his mother, 95-year-old Hiraben, at his brother's modest government flat in the state capital, Gandhinagar. He touched her feet and she put a red stripe on his forehead as a blessing, while crackers burst outside amid chants of "Modi, Modi." He was later expected to embark on a victory tour to his local constituency of Vadodara, while party workers in New Delhi hoped he would go there later for what could be a hero's welcome. (Additional reporting by Frank Jack Daniel, Rajesh Kumar Singh, Aditya Kalra, Rajesh Kumar Singh, Malini Menon and Tommy Wilkes in NEW DELHI, and by Sanjeev Miglani in AHMEDABAD, India; Writing by Douglas Busvine and Frank Jack Daniel; Editing by John Chalmers and Simon Cameron-Moore) FREE AppDownload
