When the price of a barrel of Brent crude oil peaked at a record $145.40 on July 3, 2008, there was lots of talk about "peak oil." Industry experts were speculating about whether the price might continue to rise to $200 or even higher. Global oil demand was growing faster than global oil supply. Dr. Ed's Blog It was widely believed that global oil reserves were likely to dwindle because all the cheap stuff had been found. The remaining reserves would require higher prices to develop. Now that the price has plunged from this year’s high of $115.15 on June 19 to Thursday’s $76.13, the focus is on how low can it go, what I called "trough oil" in late October. (Oil settled at $66.15 a barrel on November 28, a more than $7.50 drop in just 24 hours.) In a matter of a few months, the world suddenly recognized that the world is awash in oil. That's largely because of the extraordinary surge in US oil field production, which soared 3.6mbd over the past two years to a high of 9.4mbd during the week of Sept. 12. Easy money in the US sent lots of investors searching for better returns in the oil patch. They fueled the oil boom. In many ways, it was a bubble that may be starting to burst. Over the past eight weeks through the first week of November, US output has dropped by 0.4mbd to 9.0mbd. As they say in the commodity pits: “The best cure for falling commodity prices is falling commodity prices.” Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: The Great Deflators. (1) The New Abnormal. (2) Nostalgia about normalizing monetary policy. (3) Monetary policy affects both demand and supply. (4) Awash in liquidity and oil. (5) Easy money fueled the oil bubble. (6) Secular stagnation specter haunting Europe. (7) China remains on soft-landing course. (8) Specter of deflation in Asia. (9) Durable goods prices are falling everywhere. (10) How the Great Moderators became the Great Deflators. (11) Central bankers keeping zombies alive. (12) Governments are the biggest zombies of all. (13) Meet the Selfies. (14) “Whiplash” (+ + +). (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick Wilking A worker climbs onto a crude oil train to set the handbrake at the Eighty-Eight Oil LLC's transloading facility in Ft. Laramie, Wyoming July 15, 2014.DOUGLAS, Wyo. (AP) — Law enforcement officials in east-central Wyoming say they're seeing more crimes committed by workers newly arrived to the area's booming oil fields and don't have enough police and jail space to handle the problem. Serious crimes including aggravated assault and larceny are up 17 percent in the Douglas area since 2009, according to the Wyoming Division of Criminal Investigation. Emergency calls are up 9 percent from last year. Drug arrests are up from 37 in 2009 to 64 last year. And police were involved in two vehicle pursuits in September — the first in the city in three years, according to the Douglas Police Department. "The industry is not picky," police Sgt. Matthew Schmidt said. "They need people who can physically stand the job, so they're not concerned about their conviction records." The increase is nothing like the violent crime that spiked in North Dakota communities after oil production in the Bakken field surged several years ago. Still, local law enforcement agencies already are showing signs of strain. The Douglas Police Department is short two officers as city employees quit to work in the oil fields, the Casper Star-Tribune reports. Meanwhile, the Converse County Sheriff's Office is sending prisoners to Wheatland because their numbers exceed the number of local jail cells. Many people Schmidt arrests already have felony convictions, ranging from a fourth domestic battery to multiple DUI arrests. Schmidt said he tends to see much higher numbers when transient workers breathe into his breathalyzer. Their blood-alcohol concentrations sometimes reach 0.3 percent, more than four times the legal limit for driving, he said. In one of the recent pursuits, the driver topped 100 mph before flipping his car in a construction zone. In the other, a drunken driver destroyed 30 feet of fence near Douglas High School. Both pursuits involved energy industry workers, Schmidt said. "I think a lot of them, they know they're going to be here for a little while, so they're decent," he said. "There are others that come in and know they're not going to be here for a while and there's no reason for them to have a stake in this community." ___ Information from: Casper (Wyo.) Star-Tribune, http://www.trib.com Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Shale stocks have been hard-hit as investors see margins all but evaporating following the slide in crude oil prices, but the U.S. shale energy boom is not over. An index of oil and gas exploration and production &lt;.SPLRCOILP&gt; tumbled 8.15 percent on Friday as U.S. crude fell almost 10 percent to around $66.36 per barrel to hit its lowest in 4-1/2 years. The slide came the day after oil cartel OPEC decided not to cut output in a meeting in Vienna. Prior to the decision, Saudi officials were reported as saying the kingdom, with its large currency reserves, was prepared to withstand oil prices as low as $70-$80 per barrel for up to a year. But the weaker shale players may not have that long. "We do not know if OPEC has ulterior motives to let oil prices drift lower and pinch the global (exploration and production) sector, or if reaching a consensus on cuts was just too challenging," wrote Wells Fargo Securities in a Friday client note. "What is clear is that lower cash flows are highly likely to translate into lower E&amp;P spending." U.S. crude prices were catching up to Thursday's action in Brent as markets across the United States were closed for the Thanksgiving holiday. Friday's was a half-day session. "We'll wait to see the trend next week when there's full market volume, however it's clear that as oil prices come down there will be pressure for the weaker of the companies in the sector, particularly exploration and the ones that are highly indebted," said Quincy Krosby, market strategist at Prudential Financial in Newark, New Jersey. The overall energy sector of the S&amp;P 500 fell 6.3 percent on Friday, adding to its year-to-date losses, now at 10.3 percent. Fourteen of the sector's more than 40 stocks are within 2 percent of a 52-week low and the sector's weighting on the S&amp;P 500 has dropped to single digits, closing below 8 percent after Friday's shellacking, according to Reuters data. Nearly 90 percent of the sector's shares are trading below their 100-day moving average. However, the sharp declines also create an opportunity. "We recently moved from an underweight to a neutral weight rating in energy, so directionally we agree with the idea that this weakness is a buying opportunity, but it is very hard to tell where the bottom is," said Tony Roth, chief investment officer at Wilmington Trust in Wilmington, Delaware. "Crude seems to have no floor right now, and we could easily see the price drop into the low $60s." With the big stock price drops, others see a run to consolidation. The sector subindex is down 12 percent in 2014, with year-to-date losses of more than 20 percent in seven companies. "I think we’ll see some healthy consolidation take place," said Brian Jacobsen, chief portfolio strategist at Wells Fargo Funds Management in Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin. "Some may wither on the vine, but technology has improved to make it profitable to extract at a lower price point than last year. As a result, we’ll probably see some opportunistic buying." Jacobsen and Krosby said the slide in oil prices and the sector's shares does not mean the boom in the energy sector in the United States is ending, but will likely enter a new stage of development. "The renaissance isn't over," said Jacobsen. "It's just maturing."   (Reporting by Rodrigo Campos; Editing by Nick Zieminski) FREE AppDownload
By Jonathan Stempel (Reuters) - Wells Fargo &amp; Co was sued on Friday by Cook County, Illinois, which accused the largest U.S. mortgage lender of targeting black, Hispanic and female borrowers with predatory and discriminatory lending in the Chicago area. The lawsuit is the latest accusing major banks of biased mortgage lending that harmed major American cities, such as Los Angeles, Miami and Baltimore, and prolonged the nation's housing crisis. These lawsuits have had mixed success. According to a complaint filed in the U.S. District Court in Chicago, which is part of Cook County and the third-most populous U.S. city, Wells Fargo has for more than a decade discriminated against minority and female borrowers in the region, with a goal of maximizing profit. The 152-page complaint said the bank targeted borrowers from the time loans were made through foreclosure through "equity stripping," which includes the imposition of inflated or unnecessary rates and fees, as well as penalties to refinance. Cook County said Wells Fargo's "deliberate" and "egregious" activities affected at least 26,000 borrowers, eroded the county's property tax base, and forced the county to spend more to combat blight from abandoned properties. It said damages may total $300 million or more. The county is seeking a halt to Wells Fargo's alleged wrongful practices, as well as compensatory and punitive damages. Its lawsuit also targets practices at the former Wachovia Corp, which Wells Fargo bought at the end of 2008. Chris Hammond, a Wells Fargo spokesman, declined to comment. The San Francisco-based lender is also the fourth-largest U.S. bank by assets. Cook County has filed similar lawsuits against Bank of America Corp and Britain's HSBC Holdings Plc. Los Angeles, the second most populous U.S. city, brought cases against Wells Fargo, Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co and Citigroup Inc. The case is County of Cook, Illinois v. Wells Fargo &amp; Co, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois, No. 14-09548. (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
Europe is in dire economic straits. Growth in the euro zone is stuck below 1%, unemployment is above 11% and inflation is hovering around 0.4%, far from the European Central Bank’s 2% goal and dangerously near outright deflation. This week the Paris-based OECD rich-country club warned that the euro zone was mired in stagnation, and added that it was dragging down the world economy. Even the pope has joined in, calling the European Union “elderly and haggard”. Such a situation surely calls for an urgent and decisive response. On November 26th the European Commission’s new boss, Jean-Claude Juncker, duly unveiled what he sees as the centrepiece of his presidency: a grand investment plan worth €315 billion ($392 billion) that officials are claiming is the best way to create extra demand in Europe. Yet although Mr Juncker’s headline number sounds impressive, the sums behind it are puny. And the chances that it will kick-start growth, as Brussels is suggesting, are minimal (see article). For a start, the plan will not begin until mid-2015 at the earliest. The extra spending that it hopes to engender will then be spread over three years. Furthermore, most of Mr Juncker’s €315 billion is based on financial engineering, using public guarantees of small sums in the hope of leveraging in a lot more private capital—some of which would have been lent anyway to other projects. Even the €16 billion that is being touted as “new money” is illusory; almost all of it is being recycled from unspent bits of the EU budget. Another chunk comes from that hardy perennial, expansion of the European Investment Bank (EIB), but this institution is notoriously slow and cautious about any risky projects. The commission hopes that national governments will support its investment plan with contributions of their own. But the chances of that happening seem remote when Germany, by far the biggest and most creditworthy, is talking only of spending €10 billion on public investment over three years, and even then without relaxing its promise to balance the budget next year. REUTERS/Laurent DubruleEuropean milk producers throw tyres into the fire in front of the European Parliament during a demonstration in Brussels November 26, 2012. Mr Juncker is not solely to blame for the timidity of his plans. The commission has little money of its own. Although its budget should be better spent—it remains ludicrous to devote 40% of it to farm subsidies—it adds up to less than 1% of the EU’s total GDP. His proposed European Fund for Strategic Investments, the vehicle that aims to lure in private capital, and the expansion of the EIB may both be worthwhile ideas. Yet passing the necessary laws, finding the right projects and then raising the finance will take months or, more likely, years. For Mr Juncker to present this package as the answer to today’s stagnating economy is at best disingenuous, at worst dishonest. It may also be dangerous, because it will offer cover for governments to keep up their fiscal retrenchment at a time when they should be doing the opposite. As the ECB president, Mario Draghi, has repeatedly argued in recent months, the sickly euro-zone economy calls for decisive action on three fronts at once: a looser monetary policy, faster and deeper structural reforms by national governments, and a more supportive fiscal policy. On the first the ECB is, albeit too slowly and cautiously, embarking on a form of quantitative easing akin to that practised by other central banks. On the second, even France and Italy are, belatedly and somewhat reluctantly, following the euro zone’s periphery in making structural reforms that should, eventually, boost growth. But on the third, little is being done. REUTERS/Joshua RobertsEuropean Central Bank Governor Mario Draghi speaks at a news conference during the World Bank/IMF annual meetings in Washington October 11, 2014. Speaking in Washington last month, Mr Draghi declared that European governments with fiscal space should use it. When he added pointedly “you decide to which country this sentence applies” he clearly meant Germany. In the present climate of near-recession, sticking to its balanced-budget target for 2015 is foolish. Germans often respond by invoking worries about “moral hazard”: the fear that, if they were to relax their fiscal stance, countries like France and Italy would fail to push through much-needed but politically challenging structural reforms. Yet those reforms are much harder to make in the absence of growth. In any case Germany itself is now on the edge of recession. If growth in the euro zone does not revive soon, and even worse if deflation were to set in, the single currency would be in peril. Were it to fail, Germany would suffer grievously. FREE AppDownload
This year is going to be dominated by personal drones. Why? Because they’re incredibly fun to fly, and becoming increasingly affordable.  Black Friday is bringing prices down even further — here’s a roundup of deals not to miss. We and our friends at Stack Commerce put together the ultimate guide for getting a drone, and we've got one for every budget.  Don't forget to use the code droneinsider10 for an extra 10% off.  Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
BOSTON (Reuters) - Superstar investor David Einhorn is raising cash for the first time since 2012 following three straight years of lagging performance - and some customer redemptions from his $10 billion hedge fund, Greenlight Capital. Einhorn has delivered an average 19 percent annual return over 18 years. But slower annual growth in the last years, plus the fund's restrictive redemption policies, have raised questions among some of his clients about Greenlight's prospects. Einhorn’s fund has returned 4.9 percent this year through October, compared with a 13 percent gain by the benchmark Standard &amp; Poor's 500 Index. Similarly, he trailed the S&amp;P 500 by 13 percentage points in 2013 and by 8 percentage points in 2012. "We haven't had a quarter this thin in about three years," Einhorn wrote to investors regarding the recent third-quarter period. "We just got ground down gradually." Some of Einhorn's short positions have weighed on performance this year, investors said. He recently closed out his short bet against Keurig Green Mountain Inc. with a loss. "We had many opportunities to trade this position to a successful result, but failed to do so," he wrote in the quarterly letter, which was seen by Reuters. Also hurting performance: bets against U.S. Steel and Mallinckrodt and a bet on Marvel Technology Group Ltd, which lost 9 percent in the last six months. While the average hedge fund returned only 3 percent this year, some of Einhorn's more direct competitors are doing better. William Ackman has posted a 35 percent return at his $18 billion Pershing Square Capital Management through the end of October, Ackman said in a letter to his investors. Einhorn, Ackman, and Third Point's Daniel Loeb, who also has about $18 billion in assets, have long been seen as equally skilled by investors - and for a time the trio had a lot of overlap among clients. One disadvantage for Einhorn going forward: he has more restrictive conditions than most other top-tier funds. No withdrawals are permitted for at least 25 months, and a 5 percent penalty is imposed on redemptions requested within three years, according to investors and documents reviewed by Reuters. After the lockup period expires, investors get only one chance a year to request an exit. A spokesman for Greenlight declined to comment. REUTERS/Lucas JacksonPresident of Greenlight Capital David Einhorn Greenlight last raised money in April 2012, when Einhorn accepted about $1.2 billion in new money, roughly half of what investors wanted to give him. That was designed to replace some redemptions that had occurred then - and also to boost the fund's capital by 10 percent, people familiar with the move said. This year, all of Greenlight's capital was freed from lock up – with roughly half available for redemption by June 30, and the remainder by December 31, according to the sources and documents. The deadline to exit by year's end passed earlier in November. Despite some withdrawals detailed by investors contacted by Reuters, Greenlight remains an industry favorite with consultants. Investors have in the past lined up to give Einhorn money because of his track record – meaning the new fund raising effort could be oversubscribed as well. Brian Shapiro, whose firm Simplify performs due diligence on hedge funds for wealthy clients, said Einhorn's reputation is still solid, calling his returns "reasonably consistent." Einhorn made a name for himself in 2008 during the height of the financial crisis when his short bet against Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc added 7.3 percent to his returns that year. Even though Greenlight lost 23 percent in 2008, Einhorn fared better than other hedge funds which lost roughly 27 percent. Oli Scarff/Getty Images The call against Lehman was considered bold and paid off when the bank filed for bankruptcy. But fast forward to 2014 and some investors said some recent picks look a little less interesting. Greenlight's biggest position at the end of the third quarter was iPhone maker Apple, the company Goldman Sachs researchers say is the single most widely owned company among hedge funds. In its October 16 letter soliciting fresh money, Greenlight said the fund had identified new investment ideas. "While we have been fully invested for some time, it has been hard to find new opportunities. Given the current turmoil in the markets, this is changing quickly," the firm wrote. Some of the new money is likely to come from people who already know and like Greenlight, industry analysts and investors said. They also said the money raising could follow the same pattern as two years ago where some replaces money that was redeemed and more is raised to deploy on new bets. "Who will put money with Einhorn now?" Shapiro said. "People who buy brand name funds." Greenlight's current investor line up includes pension funds, foundations and endowments which make up about one quarter of the assets, according to the documents. Funds of funds and high net worth investors also each make up about one quarter. The firm's partners and employees are also invested. The last deadline to fund new investments was November 24 but the firm has not yet said how much new money it will accept. It couldn't be determined how much investors asked to get back at the two deadlines. But this much is clear. Einhorn wants more money to cover some redemptions and make new investments to increase his hedge fund's returns. Said Simplify's Shapiro: "Einhorn has a lot of tail risk with some of his bigger bets and he needs to broaden his diversification which means he needs more cash." (Reporting by Svea Herbst-Bayliss; Editing by Richard Valdmanis) FREE AppDownload
A dashcam video captured footage of a car almost flipping over after colliding with another vehicle on a motorway in Balakovo, Russia earlier this month. Luckily, both drivers managed to escape without injuries. Produced by Devan Joseph. Video courtesy of Associated Press. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
AP ImagesWarren BuffettBerkshire Hathaway (NYSE: BRK-A  ) (NYSE: BRK-B  ) CEO and mastermind Warren Buffett is one of the finest investing minds on the planet. His tried-and-true strategy involves betting big on simple businesses run by fantastic management teams. His favorite holding period is "forever," but only if he understands the target company inside and out. So when Buffett built a massive position in technology giant IBM (NYSE: IBM  ) over the last three years, many investors and analysts were left scratching their heads. Buffett prefers investing in traditional industries like banking, retail, or consumer goods. So why would he suddenly want a 5.5% stake in a technology firm -- and a complex one spanning several sectors, at that? That question burns as hotly as ever. IBM's shares have tumbled in 2014 but Buffett's stake only grew larger. At the latest count, Berkshire owned 8.3% of Big Blue, making it the third-largest holding in Buffett's portfolio. Doesn't Buffett hate to lose money?Truth be told, Buffett must be delighted to see IBM's share prices withering. After all, it's exactly what he was hoping for three years ago. "We should wish for IBM's stock price to languish throughout the [next] five years," Buffett wrote in Berkshire's 2012 letter to shareholders. IBM is known to spend a lot of money on share buybacks, so it only makes sense to wish for lower share prices while that train is rolling. The combination of IBM's shrinking share count and Berkshire's modest further investments in the stock has resulted in the far higher ownership stake Buffett's company holds today. "The logic is simple," Buffett wrote in 2012. "If you are going to be a net buyer of stocks in the future, either directly with your own money or indirectly (through your ownership of a company that is repurchasing shares), you are hurt when stocks rise. You benefit when stocks swoon.Emotions, however, too often complicate the matter: Most people, including those who will be net buyers in the future, take comfort in seeing stock prices advance. These shareholders resemble a commuter who rejoices after the price of gas increases, simply because his tank contains a day's supply." What a delightfully Foolish perspective. Low share prices only hurt if you're selling. At all other times, investors are better served by low prices. That way, you can afford more shares for yourself, while share buybacks and reinvested dividends achieve their maximum impact. That's pure gold to long-term investors like Warren Buffett, who have no plans to sell anytime soon. What does Buffett know that I don't?Beyond Big Blue's financial strength and Buffett's respect for its past and current management teams, IBM actually fits right into his wheelhouse. As chairman of the Mid-Continent Tab Company in the 1950s, Buffett competed directly with IBM -- and lost a lot of business to Big Blue. He's been reading IBM's annual reports ever since, making him arguably one of the world's leading experts on how IBM does business. What Buffett's investment thesis in IBM boils down to is remarkably simple. The company's leaders like to set up ambitious long-term goals, published out in the open. With these clear targets in plain view to analysts, investors, and rival businesses alike, IBM then knocks the goals down like clockwork. That's how you impress Warren Buffett into buying over 70 million shares in your company. Should I follow Buffett's example?Now, Warren Buffett is no ordinary shareholder. In order to move the needle for his enormous investment portfolio, he must work on a scale that leaves regular billionaires flat-footed, and ordinary investors can only dream about. That said, many of Buffett's reasons for owning IBM shares apply to regular retail investors as well. For example, IBM has reduced its share count by nearly 20% since the start of 2011, investing almost $50 billion in share buybacks. That's a boon to every class of investor, as share values rise when the share count falls. The jury may still be out on IBM CEO Ginni Rometty, who took the helm right after Buffett disclosed his large IBM investment. The market certainly doesn't seem convinced that her chosen strategy is the right one, judging by those plunging share prices. But then, change is always difficult, especially when the long-term benefits of a new strategy can only come after a few years of seemingly disastrous adjustments. That's the case for IBM right now. As the company distances itself from low-margin hardware systems sales, revenues are stalling. The end result should be stronger profit margins and a healthier business overall, but investors have come to expect a certain sales heft out of IBM -- and Rometty isn't making it a priority. So IBM's shares are falling on short-term concerns, as the company prepares for a more profitable long-term future. Buffett sure doesn't mind the resulting discount prices on IBM shares, and Berkshire's recent buys show that he still believes in the business model. If he's right, investors who buy IBM shares at today's low prices will benefit just as strongly as Buffett does. He just happens to have about $13.4 billion more skin in the game.   Anders Bylund has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends Berkshire Hathaway. The Motley Fool owns shares of Berkshire Hathaway and International Business Machines. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMan speaks on his mobile phone as he walks past the logos of Vodafone painted on a roadside wall in KolkataBy Anjuli Davies and Kate Holton LONDON (Reuters) - Vodafone  is reviewing potential acquisitions, including of Europe's leading cable operator Liberty Global , to counter the pending consolidation among rivals in Britain, five people close to the matter said. The internal deliberations at the world's second-biggest mobile operator, have picked up pace in recent days after broadband leader BT Group  revealed it was in parallel talks to buy either EE or Telefonica's 02 . If concluded, BT's foray into mobile is expected to tilt the market toward selling more all-included bundles of fixed and mobile services. That makes it more important for historically mobile-only companies such as Vodafone, EE, 02 and Hutchison's 3 to have their own fixed networks or be condemned to being simple resellers of BT's fiber. The attraction of Liberty, which is backed by U.S. billionaire John Malone, is its ownership of cable networks capable of carrying very high-speed broadband traffic to homes and business in nearly a dozen European countries. In Britain, Vodafone would get its hands on the broadband network of Liberty's Virgin Media, which covers around half of the country. That would bolster the broadband network Vodafone got in 2012 when it bought Cable &amp; Wireless. One person familiar with the situation said Vodafone had approached Liberty Global about a combination earlier this year but found a gulf on price expectations. A deal would come after Vodafone undertook similar moves by buying the Ono cable company in Spain and Kabel Deutschland in Germany as it seeks to either buy or build fixed-line infrastructure across Europe. In addition to Liberty, Vodafone is also considering all its options in Britain to bolster its broadband operation including a deal for low-cost player TalkTalk , although this is seen as a weaker option since the company does not have many fiber lines going into consumers homes. "Liberty is the obvious one that makes sense," said a third person close to the situation. "Vodafone need fiber and that is what Liberty has." A fourth person said Vodafone's strategy team had been meeting for over a week to consider the different options. The combination would create a communications powerhouse with annual sales of more than $80 billion, but is likely to face regulatory scrutiny in countries where the two overlap, such as Germany, Britain, and the Netherlands. In Germany where Vodafone and Liberty compete in cable, competition regulators have taken a tough stance on combinations among cable companies. It remains to be seen whether Vodafone will move ahead with making a bid for Liberty, or if it will seek an another way to bolster its UK fixed operation, such as renting lines or building more itself. "Absolutely, they are watching developments but that doesn't mean they are going to pounce," said a fifth person. Both Vodafone and Liberty Global declined to comment on Friday.  (Additional reporting by Leila Abboud and Sophie Sassard; Writing by Leila Abboud, editing by David Evans) FREE AppDownload
LONDON (Reuters) - Procter &amp; Gamble Co &lt;pg.n&gt; is working with Goldman Sachs &lt;gs.n&gt; to explore the sale of its hair care business Wella that could be worth around $7 billion, as the world's largest consumer products company streamlines its portfolio, sources familiar with the matter told Reuters. P&amp;G is exploring all options for the unit, which includes a professional and a trade business, that may result in selling the whole or parts, the sources said on Friday, cautioning that no final decision had been taken. P&amp;G declined to comment. Goldman Sachs was not immediately available to comment. Cincinnati-based P&amp;G said in August it would shed 80 to 100 slow-growing product lines in order to focus on about 80 brands such as Tide laundry detergents and Pampers diapers which generate most of its profit and revenue. In November, it announced the sale of its Duracell battery unit to Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc &lt;BRKa.N&gt; and it has already sold the bulk of its pet food business to Mars Inc and Spectrum Brand Holdings Inc. In the hair care segment, P&amp;G also owns Clairol, which it bought from Bristol-Myers Squibb for $4.95 billion in 2001, and Vidal Sassoon. Prospective buyers could include Anglo-Dutch consumer goods group Unilever &lt;ULVR.L&gt; andGermany's Henkel, which made an informal approach for Wella in 2002 before it was subsequently sold to P&amp;G in 2003 for 6.5 billion euros ($8.1 billion). P&amp;G has undertaken a multi-year restructuring program, cutting thousands of jobs and taking steps to streamline operations, launch new products and expand into fast-growing emerging markets, under pressure from shareholders including activist investor William A. Ackman, who took a stake in P&amp;G in 2012. It is also thought to be exploring options for Braun, which makes electric razors and toothbrushes and which it acquired as part of its $57 billion purchase of Gillette in 2005, sources familiar with the matter told Reuters. It could also look to sell some of its fragrance business. (Reporting by Anjuli Davies and Freya Berry; editing by Pamela Barbaglia) (Additional reporting by Pamela Barbaglia; Editing by Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
Crashing oil prices might be a bit of good news for the struggling Japanese economy. Following OPEC's decision on Thursday to not cut production, oil prices broke $70 per barrel for the first time since June 2010. Some think it can drop as low as $60 per barrel. And while the drop in oil prices caused many oil company stocks to drop on Friday — and has hurt countries dependent on energy like Russia — Japan could potentially be a beneficiary. Already, Japan's economy has seen a positive effect from the decline in oil prices, but the continued drop could be good news for both Japanese stocks and the Japanese consumer. "Japan benefits from lower oil prices as it's a big importer," writes Citi's Robert Buckland in a recent note to clients.  A welcome benefit, as Japan's economy unexpectedly slipped into recession during the third quarter, as growth contracted at an annualized pace of 1.6% in the quarter. Buckland writes that "the decline in oil prices, along with moderate growth in nominal per-capita wages and employment is likely to boost the real purchasing power of Japanese consumers." And in addition to the consumer gains, Japanese equities outperform by approximately 30% on a relative basis over a five year period, and by slightly more than 20% over a ten year period, following oil price declines. Citi FREE AppDownload
Casino revenue in Macau could fall 25% in December according to Wells Fargo, continuing an ugly months-long slide that is beginning to claim another victim — Las Vegas. Total casino revenue on the Las Vegas strip fell 5.6% to $520 million in October as high-rolling baccarat players from China stayed home fearing President Xi's corruption drive. Baccarat winnings fell 36%. It's worth noting that the people that can really make a difference in the high-roller market are few — maybe a couple hundred big time players from around the world — so when some (in this case, Chinese) players dip out, it makes a difference. And it's a problem Macau has been trying to tackle since earlier this year, when a billion dollar heist changed the way VIP games are financed. Macau used to adhere to a junket system in which high-rollers use investor money to gamble, and investors were guaranteed 1%-2% returns. However, when one junket operator vanished with over a billion in junket cash, the whole system was disrupted and investors wanted higher returns. Xi's corruption crackdown and China's economic slow down exacerbated matters. "We see no near-term respite for weak on-the-ground conditions in Macau," Philip Tulk of Standard Chartered wrote in a recent note. "Junket/VIP’s long-time virtuous cycle has become a vicious one; funding/liquidity remains very tight, and the business model looks near broken." This is a big admission for a Wall Street bank. For months analyst notes have been riddled with excuses — a smoking ban was hurting revenues, they said; the corruption drive was a minor issue, they said; middle class Chinese players would soon rescue Macau's revenue etc. But none of that has turned out to be true, and analysts are grudgingly beginning to think about what will happen to Macau after the next 6 months. "We believe last week’s rate cuts in China signal that the Chinese economic outlook is worsening, rather than a material change in policy," wrote Wells Fargo analyst Cameron McKnight. "With short-term negative macro and Macau trends well understood, most investors have been inquiring about the longer-term outlook. We remain on the sidelines, all else equal, regarding Macau until we see either: (1) a sustained macro rebound, and/or (2) a change in China policies. Importantly, continued weakness in Chinese credit growth suggests that Macau gaming could remain weak for longer than expected (at least 6 months)." Xi is visiting Macau next month, which analysts are considering an additional headwind for gaming revenue. It's like having your dad visit your frat house. FREE AppDownload
A bizarre video from China shows a man demolishing an industrial chimney brick-by-brick — a job that is more commonly carried out in one go using explosives. According to a local news report, the man is an employee of a construction company and is used to working at high altitudes. Produced by Devan Joseph. Video courtesy of Associated Press.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Deni Williams/FlickrThe price of oil is going to stay lower for the next few years, possibly within the $70 - $90 per barrel-range, according to Citi research. Brent crude fell tumbled to four-year lows this week after OPEC, the 12-nation oil exporting cartel, announced that it would not reduce production. As Business Insider's Myles Udland wrote, energy stocks got crushed on this half day of trading. And from Citi's research, they evidently decline the most when oil prices fall. "According to our analysts, oil services and midcap [Exploration &amp; Production] stocks are the most vulnerable to lower oil prices as they are high beta plays on oil," wrote Citi's Robert Buckland and team. Below is a chart that shows how all the various equity industries perform when oil drops. Among the industries that outperform in a low-oil-price environment, Citi highlighted that retailers benefit because of the impact of low gasoline prices on consumers.  Citi Research FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Marc Berenguer/Alpinel.comTo lounge here for a week would cost you over $40,000 per day.The world’s billionaires are flocking to the French Alps this ski season, where deluxe “super chalets” are renting for over $40,000 a day. These vacation homes rent for such extraordinary prices because they offer luxurious amenities such as personal chefs, butlers, nightclubs, and more. Of course, the mega-wealthy clientele love it. One such home is Le Petit Palais chalet in the Three Valleys area of the Alps — a stunning, modern chalet that was only just completed back in 2012. The owner, Dennis Crema, told the Wall Street Journal he values the chalet at over $60 million. But instead of selling the home, Crema rents it out on a week-by-week basis for anywhere from €100,000 ($125,000) to €240,000 ($300,000) at the height of ski season. That averages to over $40,000 a day, and the reservation requires a deposit of 50% of the total price. The six-floor, ski-in/ski-out home has its own chef, pool, wine cellar, cigar room, nightclub spectacular views, and over 18,000 square feet of space. There are seven bedrooms and it can fit between 12 to 15 guests. If that’s not enough, Le Petit Palais also connects to its sister villa, Le Petit Château, via a large underground parking area. Le Petit Palais is a part of the Courchevel 1850 ski resort and is closest to the Bellecôte slope, perhaps the most popular slope due to its connection to a nearby village with lots of shopping and restaurants. You can see prices for Le Petit Palais and other super chalets at Alpinel.com.
Oil is still falling.  In afternoon trade on Friday, West Texas Intermediate crude prices in the US dropped more than 10% to settle at $66.15 a barrel, a more than $7.50 drop in just 24 hours. At one point on Friday, WTI futures briefly breached $66. Brent crude prices, which are the global benchmark, also cracked $70 a barrel on Friday.  Earlier this week, WTI prices were at around $76 and Brent prices were near $80. The drop in crude prices is a continuation of the collapse that started on Thursday after the latest OPEC meeting saw the oil cartel maintain its current rate of production. Many in the market expected OPEC to announce production cuts to combat the recent decline in oil prices, which some have blamed on too much global supply. On Thursday, WTI prices fell more than 6% to below $70 for the first time since June 2010. Equity markets in the US were closed for Thanksgiving, but in a shortened session on Friday, oil companies were the big losers, with oil giants like Exxon Mobil, BP, and Total seeing shares decline more than 5%. Meanwhile smaller oil producers like Whiting Petroleum, Kodiak Oil &amp; Gas, and Oasis Petroleum all saw shares fall more than 28%.  Here is the insane chart of crude prices over the last 24 hours. FinViz More to come ... FREE AppDownload
 On Thursday, oil prices crashed. And on Friday, shares of oil companies around the world followed suit. Here were some of the biggest losers on Friday: And this list goes on. All areas of the oil space, from international behemoths like BP, to state-controlled companies like Statoil, to US shale producers like Whiting and Kodiak, are getting hit. Here's the incredible chart of these stocks just getting clobbered. Google Finance Many in the market had expected OPEC to announce a production cut to combat the global supply glut that has been blamed for some of the massive decline we've seen in the price of oil over the past several months.  Instead, OPEC said it would maintain its current production level of 30 million barrels a day, which has been in place since December 2011. OPEC said it would meet again in June 2015. On Thursday, West Texas Intermediate crude futures fell below $70 for the first time since June 2010. Thursday's one-day drop in WTI was also accompanied by a drop in Brent crude prices, and both benchmarks fell more than 6% in a 24-hour period.  On Friday, the US stock market was open for a half day, closing at 1:00 pm ET, but after the close, crude oil continued its drop, falling to around $66 a barrel, the lowest since May 2010. This latest plunge brought oil's plunge to more than 10% in the last 24 hours. FinViz On Thursday, Russian oil tycoon Leonid Fedun told Bloomberg that OPEC's decision not to cut production is part of an effort to flush out US shale producers, which have ramped up production significantly in the last few years. Fedun said that the US shale boom is "on par" with the dot-com boom. In a post on Business Insider on Thursday, former PIMCO CEO Mohamed El-Erian wrote that while the market's reaction Thursday indicated clear surprise at OPEC's decision, the market shouldn't have been shocked. "OPEC has a history of opting for strategic rather than tactical decisions; and, this time around, it may have done so from a position of caution rather than overwhelming strength," El-Erian wrote. Bur regardless of how the market should have prepared for OPEC's announcement, the result was clear: oil companies paid the price.    FREE AppDownload
Crude oil prices took a nosedive on Thursday, dropping below $70 a barrel for the first time in years — and this is great for India. Around the world, the impacts of OPEC's decision not to limit the supply of oil are still sinking in: stocks are tumbling, other danger lies ahead in the long term, and oil-producing countries like Venezuela could even face civil unrest. But India, which is proving extremely well-suited to the current macroeconomic climate, could see its current account pushed into surplus. India is the world's third largest importer of oil, after the U.S. and China. Oil makes up about 31 percent of total imports for the South Asian nation, which imports 80 percent of its oil needs (or, about 4,591,000 barrels a day in 2012). Here's the impact that a $10 drop in oil prices would have on India (as well as other oil-importing countries like South Africa and Turkey): Citi Research CPI in India, at 5.5 percent last month, is already well below the government's 2016 target. The oil crash will very likely push it further. Wholesale prices have already been falling thanks to decreasing oil prices, and will be sure to continue: Capital EconomicsIndia wholesale prices graph So right now, India looks like a winner. But there is the concern that OPEC's decision to loosen its hold of the market could lead to volatility down the road. We could see heavy price shocks in the future, which would be harmful to India and all its oil-importing companions. FREE AppDownload
One of the most high-profile adopters of Apple's new payment service Apple Pay is Whole Foods. A couple of weeks after Apple Pay launched, payments expert Mike Dudas estimated that Apple Pay already accounted for 1% of all Whole Foods transactions — a startling amount given that Apple Pay is only available on a minority of iPhones, that Apple Pay is new, and that Apple Pay arguably doesn't offer any real advantages over a credit card. This apparent success triggered a burst of enthusiasm about Apple Pay. Well, I shopped at a Whole Foods today for the first time in a while. While I was paying (with a credit card), I asked the cashier how many people used Apple Pay. "Apple Pay?" she asked. "What's that?" I was going to remind her, but then she remembered. "Oh, is that the thing where you pay with your phone? No, no one uses that. Oh, I might have seen one kid once do that, but no one else does." Had the cashier been trained to use Apple Pay? "No," she said.  "How do you do it?" I said you needed an iPhone 6 and an authenticated credit card, etc. "Ah," she said. "Well, I only have an iPhone 4." This morning on Twitter, someone said that cashiers at the Whole Foods in Palo Alto, California, say that "75%" of people there use Apple Pay. If that number is exaggerated by a whole order of magnitude, it's still impressive. But at the Whole Foods in Hyannis, Massachusetts — which is not a total digital backwater — it doesn't seem as though Apple Pay is taking the world by storm. FREE AppDownload
In a passionate speech on Thursday, Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro vowed that he would not rest until oil prices were back to "where they should be," reports Venezuelan paper, El Universal. For Maduro's purposes, that's at about $100 a barrel. "We will maintain the depth and rhythm of our investments into society," Maduro said speaking at a military celebration. "The best response in the face of obstacles is to come together in work, in struggle — it is to have discipline. On Thursday OPEC leaders agreed not to reduce global oil output, thereby increasing the price of the commodity. As a result, oil stocks crashed, and the price of oil continued its months-long slide. For Venezuela, that means the commodity that makes up 95% of its exports is not bringing in enough cash to support the investments Maduro was talking about — social programs dating back to the late-Hugo Chavez's regime, ranging from education to social welfare. This couldn't come at a worse time for the country. Venezuela's inflation rate is the highest in the Americas, at 65%. Household goods are scarce, and have been for some time. Over the past month, Venezuelan bonds have been selling off at breakneck speed. All of this has been a strain on the regime, which has lost legitimacy since the death of Chavez, who was a far more charismatic leader than his successor. Hundreds of thousands marched in the streets earlier this spring, but the opposition has mostly been squashed. Now Maduro faces problems from within his own ranks, and oil prices aren't helping. Maduro's party set up an anonymous tip system, so that party-members can report "internal enemies." This week Maduro had a birthday, and attendance was dismal. You know it's bad when people stop showing up for your birthday. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Reliance IndustriesThe US stock market was only open for a half day on Friday, but following news on Thursday that OPEC would not curb production, oil companies of all sizes took it on the chin. Despite the rout in oil names, by virtue of a higher close the Dow made yet another record high. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Friday: 1. It was all about oil on Friday. The big losers were oil companies, with heavy losses suffered by international giants and smaller US-based shale companies. We've got a full rundown here, but some of the big standouts were Statoil, down 12%, Whiting Petroleum, down 21%, and Oasis Petroleum, down 27%. The decline in oil companies comes after OPEC announced on Thursday that it would not cut production, a move some had expected the cartel to make in response to the declining price of oil that some have blamed on a global supply glut. In response to this news, oil prices fell more than 6% on Thursday, and on Friday West Texas Intermediate crude futures fell below $68. 2. The big decline in oil prices has had people asking about the ramifications for US consumers, shale oil companies, and the budgets of major oil exporters that rely on this revenue to break even. But the longer term impact that has started to come into the conversation is future price shocks, which could result from a lack of supply if production declines sharply due to the recent downturn in oil prices.  3. And while future price shocks may be a ways away, a more immediate concern for companies are their breakeven prices, and these two charts from Citi highlight the breakeven prices for US shale producers and international oil companies. By and large, US shale production is still profitable with oil prices above $60, while international companies have found projects make economic sense if they can sell their oil from $90, though this potential is fading as futures markets make hedging more difficult.  4. The decline in the price of oil has been fast and furious, with oil prices falling more than 30% since June, but one hedge fund manager, Zach Schreiber, gave a presentation at the Ira Sohn investing conference in May and said that crude oil prices were going lower. A lot lower. Schreiber said that complacency among US oil drillers was brought about by steadily rising prices, and added that "complacency is a killer." And now here we are.  5. Russian officials on Thursday said that Russia could handle oil prices declining to $60 a barrel, but the market isn't so sure, as the Russian ruble collapsed to a new low against the dollar on Friday, with one dollar buying nearly 50 rubles. Earlier this year, this rate was closer to 35.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Finbarr O'ReillyA fuel pump is defaced with a graffiti caricature of Muammar Gaddafi in Ajdabiyah.Oil is the big story on Friday.  Earlier, we highlighted charts from Citi which showed the breakeven prices for oil projects in both the US shale basin and around the world. But the big decline in oil also has big ramifications on national budgets for a number of major oil producing nations. According to the following chart from Citi's Ed Morse number of major oil exporters including Saudi Arabia and Russia have seen oil prices tumble well below their breakeven price this year. Morse highlighted this chart in a November 10 note that predicted OPEC would likely not announce a production cut at its meeting, which was held yesterday. That prediction came true. Among the factors Morse cited for why a production cut was unlikely is that Saudi Arabia has enough cash on hand to withstand the decline in oil prices so far.  And following OPEC's announcement on Thursday, Russian oil CEO Igor Sechin said that Russia could withstand a drop in crude prices to $60 a barrel.  Russia is not an OPEC member. And so as oil prices continue to tumble a number of countries that rely on oil exports to balance their budget will certainly miss this goal in 2014, a few countries really stand out.  Iraq, Iran, Algeria, and Yemen never saw oil prices get above their breakeven price for more than just a few days in 2014.  But Libya looks like it never had a chance.Citi Research FREE AppDownload
A surge in capital expenditures and leverage in the energy industry could end badly for some companies and their creditors. While select opportunities exist, we think bond investors should think carefully before they blindly bankroll today’s North American energy revolution. Energy-sector high-yield bonds have been at the epicenter of recent volatility in the global high-yield market. Between late August and mid-November, the US high-yield energy sector is down 6.2%, compared to a 1.7% decline for the broader US high-yield corporate-bond market. So does this volatility represent a buying opportunity? Or is it an indicator of problems to come? In our view, it might be trouble—at least for many small, highly-leveraged companies involved in oil exploration and production—and that’s reason for investors to tread carefully. Since 2000, energy companies have invested some $1.5 trillion into operations—mostly exploration and production—and they’ve taken on a hefty share of debt to do it. Debt issued by energy firms today comprises more than 15% of the Barclays US High Yield Index, compared to less than 5% a decade ago (Display). AllianceBernstein BlogIt’s hard to find a historical example of so much money chasing an opportunity that ended well. Typically, such ambitious investment leads to bubbles, and the bubbles eventually burst. Consider the US telecom industry, which saw its share of debt as a percentage of the overall market increase by a similar margin in the years leading up to the early 2000s, when the sector ran into trouble. Energy Boom Does Not Guarantee Profits There’s no doubt technological advances and shale-gas discovery in the US and Canada have reshaped North American oil and gas markets. US natural gas production hit a record high in 2013 and oil production has reversed a prolonged decline. This progress is thanks largely to horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing—or fracking. But not every segment of the energy industry stands to benefit. Oil prices are now below $80 a barrel—in part a result of the supply glut caused by the North American production boom. Small companies that have levered up to fund exploration and production will see their margins squeezed—with bankruptcy a distinct possibility in some cases. As a result, many firms no longer have access to capital markets. But we think investors should think carefully before deciding to snap up their existing debt at a discount. Companies involved in exploration and production—known as “upstream operations”—are vulnerable simply because they’ve earmarked too much capital for production. While fracking has helped increase capacity, the cost of developing production capabilities isn’t likely to be fully recovered. The Struggle to Recoup InvestmentTo understand why, let’s again turn to telecoms at the turn of the century. The investments many companies made to lay high-speed network cables proved a boon for internet users. But investors suffered sizable losses because they miscalculated the true cost of those investments. Like telecoms in the early 2000s, the money being spent on oil and gas field development in recent years may prove poor investments in the long run—even as the lower cost of energy benefits consumers. And the lower the price of oil goes, the more likely it is that companies will struggle to recover their costs. Onshore service firms that support the energy sector will suffer from any resulting reduction in fracking activity. Meanwhile, an oversupply of drilling rigs that’s already squeezing offshore service providers could get worse. Opportunities Exist, But Selectivity Is KeyNone of this means the energy sector is devoid of opportunities. But the most promising ones, in our view, are likely to be focused on other segments of the industry. Companies that maintain pipelines and oil-storage providers, for instance, typically have less exposure to oil prices because they enjoy long-term contracts. For them, a decline in prices would be a good thing, boosting demand for oil and likely increasing the amount of oil moving through the system. Likewise, downstream firms—particularly North American refiners—are living in a golden age. Cheaper oil prices reduce their cost of business, allowing them to maintain or even increase margins even as cheaper energy prices boost demand. Even in the upstream segment, some firms that control attractive oil and gas fields will emerge as winners. But finding these gems won’t be easy, particularly if overall industry turmoil increases. In our view, significant losses for creditors of the least profitable exploration and production companies are a real risk. When it comes to the high-yield energy sector, investors should proceed with caution. The views expressed herein do not constitute research, investment advice or trade recommendations and do not necessarily represent the views of all AB portfolio-management teams. Ivan Rudolph-Shabinsky is a Portfolio Manager of Credit and Petter Stensland is a Research Analyst, Credit, both at AllianceBernstein, L.P.   This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Heinz-Peter BaderSaudi Arabia's Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi.Saudi Arabia is widely believed to have been the major reason why OPEC elected not to cut oil production at its key meeting on Thursday. The news sent oil prices tumbling, with both Brent and WTI crude hitting lows not seen since 2010. Yet while a number of commentators hailed the decision as a "victory" for OPEC's largest member against pressure to cut from its fellow oil producers both within and outside of the cartel, it comes at a cost for the Saudis. Indeed, according to research from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) from September, persistently low oil prices could quickly start becoming a problem. And here's why. As the report states: The fiscal position in Saudi Arabia is currently very strong. Fiscal outcomes have been favourable in recent years and government deposits at SAMA have increased to around 60 percent of GDP, sufficient to cover 20 months of spending, while government debt has declined to only 2¾ percent of GDP. In addition, the government has considerable assets in the form of ownership stakes in many companies. The government’s ambitious spending program, however, could significantly erode the buffers that have been built up and increase vulnerability to a drop in oil prices. IMFIn practice, this means that on current spending plans if oil prices were to drop by $25 below the baseline forecast in 2015 and remain lower until 2019 the kingdom would have exhausted deposits held by the central bank by 2018. This would leave Saudi Arabia more vulnerable to further price shifts in the oil market and less able to play the maintain its position as a key provider of regional stability. And here's the problem. The baseline scenario is for the average oil price of $105 a barrel this year, $101.6 a barrel in 2015 and $97.7 a barrel for 2016. Unfortunately, with oil prices in freefall these forecasts are being quickly revised downwards. However, Goldman Sachs forecasts that WTI crude is likely to trade close to $70 a barrel next year rising to only $80 a barrel in 2016 with Brent crude closer to $85 and $90 respectively. Those would be substantially lower than the IMF's baseline. Goldman Sachs What does this mean? In the short term, Saudi Arabia might be able to weather lower oil prices in order to maintain its market share in the major US market. Yet the longer current levels last the more damage they are likely to do to the country. As the IMF puts it, "a longer-lasting and more pronounced decline in oil revenues would require...substantial adjustment in government spending". Depending on how the oil market responds over the next few months, the next meeting of OPEC members scheduled for next June could be very interesting indeed. FREE AppDownload
Update, December 8: Oil is still getting crushed. On Monday morning, both Brent and WTI crude oil were resuming their slide lower, making five-year lows as oil has failed to meaningfully recover from the huge decline that was set off by the OPEC announcement that it would not move to curb production. And now that oil prices have fallen more than 30% in just the last six or so months, everyone wants to know how low prices can go before oil projects start shutting down, particularly US shale projects. In a note in mid-November, Citi's Ed Morse highlighted this chart, showing that for most US shale plays, costs are below $80 a barrel.  Citi Morse writes that if Brent price move towards $60 — they're currently around $72 — a "significant" amount of shale production would be challenged. But Morse also highlighted this dizzying chart, listing the breakeven price for every international oil company project through 2020. (You can save it to your computer and zoom in for a closer look.) CitiThe US shale plays Over the last few years, Morse writes that companies have been willing to consider projects if they can sell the project's oil for $90 a barrel.  And while the chart shows that almost every project that has been considered by companies to this point has required prices less than $90 to break-even, Morse writes that companies are canceling projects that require oil prices above $80 a barrel to break-even as the futures market has made hedging above that price a challenge.  And beyond the implications for the economic feasibility of projects right now, there are also implications for future global supply.  "We think the world has plenty of oil at $90 going forward," Morse writes, "but supply may be less adequate on a sustainable basis at prices much below $70...even though on a shorter-term basis, US shale production can continue to grow robustly even at lower prices."  Last month, Business Insider's Shane Ferro also highlighted comments from analysts at Morgan Stanley, who write that while we're focused on lower prices today shutting down projects, potentially supply shortfalls and upward price shocks in the future could be even more harmful in the future. 
(This post has been edited by Business Insider) Admittedly, Black Friday is not my favorite day of the year; neither is Cyber Monday for that matter. But I do recognize that a deal is a deal. And we all like a good deal, do we not? So anyway, without further delay, here is a round up of a number of brands and stores holding sales (and a few others that are not doing sales that I included because I like them). The list is subject to change (and hopefully growth), so please keep checking in. Any questions or additions you’d like to make, sound off in the comments. Check it out below, or download here. Black Friday 2014, Fine Young Gentleman  FREE AppDownload
After a record-setting snowfall hit the region the night before Thanksgiving, utility workers in northern New England are working frantically to restore power to tens of thousands of homes and businesses. Power has so far been restored in some places, but for others they say it could take several days before electricity is restored. Produced by Devan Joseph. Video courtesy of Associated Press.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Whether through improvisation, opportunism, fear or calculation, 2014 has seen a massive shift in the way political authority works in Russia. Moscow has moved dramatically away from a legal-rational way of doing politics to a charismatic, belligerent style. Stirring his citizens up with nationalistic sentiments, Vladimir Putin has increasingly mobilised Russians around a negative agenda centred on resentment against Russia’s diminished status, a return to empire, and cultural loathing of pluralistic, open societies. Putin celebrated the return of Crimea to Russia in terms of righting historical injustice, and as the restoration of “historical Russian lands”. The themes of defending the Russkiy Mir (“Russian world”) and sustaining Novorossiya soon followed – with ominous signs that more expansionism could be in the offing. In August, Putin remarked that Kazakhstan premier Nursultanov Nazarbayev had “created a state on a territory that never had a state” and that an “overwhelming majority of Kazakhstan’s citizens seek the development of relations with Russia, we see it and know it.” And in a less reported incident in October, deputy chief of staff Vyacheslav Volodin put it this way: “If there is no Putin, there is no Russia.” All this has meant a radicalisation of Russian foreign and security policy, which is becoming more virulently anti-Western than at any time in living memory – in turn, it has sparked a radical rethink of the way the West engages with Russia. But why has Russia chosen to go down this road? Of course, one explanation for this new belligerence is the Putin government’s peculiar view of itself as being on the right side of history, as opposed to the West, which it sees as as decadent, dysfunctional, and swimming against the tide. But other things are fuelling Russia’s rough behaviour besides. This new nationalist grandstanding is the work of a pressurised political elite keen to recoup political ground it lost in the 2000s. The oil-backed, import-dependent, “soft authoritarian” government of Dimitri Medvedev neither met rising middle-class aspirations nor gave the existing oligarchic elite what it wanted. Russia spent the 2000s turning itself into a thoroughly corporatist and nationalist state. Its political culture is now characterised by a highly politicised and selective application of the rule of law, a corrupt bureaucracy, and a party system defined by patronage and personal ties to the president. The “No Putin, no Russia” mantra certainly reflects the reality of Russian politics, but not quite in the way it’s meant to. Equally, imperial “restoration”, and the much “harder” authoritarian governance system that goes with it, only make sense in a time of economic contraction and in a manufactured state of semi-permanent war. This climate of perpetual struggle has forced the creation of a whole new national strategy. In the face of biting sanctions, food production is stimulated, Gazprom’s pivot to Asian energy markets accelerated, and internal dissent crushed. An attack on Putin is now an attack on Russia. The country has also become a full-blown “securitocracy”. Though Putin assumed power in 2000 through a non-charismatic route – he was selected from within the system – he is now a charismatic leader with a national mission, the only individual able to protect and safeguard a patriotic electorate. His job is to defend the integrity of the nation against “national traitors”, “foreign agents”, “fifth columnists and "sixth columnists” – never mind external threats from “fascists”, “colour revolutions”, “encirclement”, and so on. Russia’s elite is cynical, dynastic, absurdly rich (110 individuals control 35% of Russian GDP), and pragmatic. It supports the shift to this harsh, charismatic politics as a defence of the status quo. Were the corporatist nationalist state to be reformed, power continuity would not be possible. Germany, the US and other leading players are currently rethinking policy responses to Russia. In the short term, maintaining NATO solidarity is critical – and paradoxically, Russia’s livid accusations of NATO plotting have helped galvanise the alliance against it. After listening to endless screeds about how Western EU and NATO member states are backing a fascist, anti-Semitic, neo-Nazi regime in Kiev and training mercenaries to kill civilians in the east – where Russian forces of course have never operated – even usually pro-Russian NATO members are aghast, and willing to countenance a co-ordinated pushback. That said, NATO still needs a comprehensive reform of its security apparatus if it is to seriously counter any future moves along these lines. Russia will continue to test the alliance’s operational capacity in the Baltic region, and it will very probably use the threat of escalation there to distract from advances on Kharkiv and Mariupol. Of course, Russia’s goal is not to capture Baltic territory, but to reverse what it sees as dangerous and destabilising democratisation on its borders. Meanwhile, the EU will review energy policy towards Russia, and as the US becomes more energy independent and begins to export liquefied natural gas to Europe, any shift from Gazprom will be decisive for Russia’s income and so its foreign policy. Over the longer term, countering the claims Russia uses to justify interventions in Ukraine will demand a serious diplomatic counter-offensive. Russian-language broadcasting to Russia and its neighbours and countering the influence of Russia’s external propaganda, in particular, could prove effective. Russia’s window of opportunity is closing. Putin’s critique of the global system is certainly a powerful one, but no plausible alternative to the liberal capitalist democratic network the US leads has been proposed. The BRICS, the putative “opposition” to that order, are mismatched and divided. Even as Russia’s notional strategic allies, the other BRICS view events in Ukraine as a regional squabble, not a new East-West rift or second Cold War. China in particular is determined to have its own relationship with the US without Russia as a mediator or third party. Meanwhile, Russia’s cash reserves fund is set to run out in 18 months, even sooner if oil prices keep falling. It faces a full-blown currency crisis, with the rouble having devalued 25% since June; shrinking investor confidence and the West’s sanctions are biting hard. Internal domestic support is fickle. Euphoria is hard to maintain. Loyal elites, including those running Russia’s most lucrative industries, may baulk at the threatening logic of “no Putin, no Russia”. Above all, more worrying than what happens if Putin succeeds is the prospect of what will happen if he fails. Ultimately, the challenge is to craft a response that positively channels Russia’s power and patriotism without reinforcing Putin’s paranoia. That will be easier said than done.  Graeme Herd does not work for, consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations. This article was originally published on The Conversation. Read the original article. FREE AppDownload
 On Thursday, oil prices crashed. And on Friday, shares of oil companies around the world followed suit. Here were some of the biggest losers on Friday: And this list goes on. All areas of the oil space, from international behemoths like BP, to state-controlled companies like Statoil, to US shale producers like Whiting and Kodiak, are getting hit. Here's the incredible chart of these stocks just getting clobbered. Google Finance Many in the market had expected OPEC to announce a production cut to combat the global supply glut that has been blamed for some of the massive decline we've seen in the price of oil over the past several months.  Instead, OPEC said it would maintain its current production level of 30 million barrels a day, which has been in place since December 2011. OPEC said it would meet again in June 2015. On Thursday, West Texas Intermediate crude futures fell below $70 for the first time since June 2010. Thursday's one-day drop in WTI was also accompanied by a drop in Brent crude prices, and both benchmarks fell more than 6% in a 24-hour period.  On Friday, the US stock market was open for a half day, closing at 1:00 pm ET, but after the close, crude oil continued its drop, falling to around $66 a barrel, the lowest since May 2010. This latest plunge brought oil's plunge to more than 10% in the last 24 hours. FinViz On Thursday, Russian oil tycoon Leonid Fedun told Bloomberg that OPEC's decision not to cut production is part of an effort to flush out US shale producers, which have ramped up production significantly in the last few years. Fedun said that the US shale boom is "on par" with the dot-com boom. In a post on Business Insider on Thursday, former PIMCO CEO Mohamed El-Erian wrote that while the market's reaction Thursday indicated clear surprise at OPEC's decision, the market shouldn't have been shocked. "OPEC has a history of opting for strategic rather than tactical decisions; and, this time around, it may have done so from a position of caution rather than overwhelming strength," El-Erian wrote. Bur regardless of how the market should have prepared for OPEC's announcement, the result was clear: oil companies paid the price.    FREE AppDownload
Oil's getting crushed. This week's plunging prices come after OPEC agreed not to cut oil production. In other words, they are not making an effort to relieve the oil supply glut that's been keeping prices low. At the moment, falling energy prices are basically a tax break for the American consumer. Longer-term, the danger might be a huge price swing in the other direction, especially if today's low prices force too many unprofitable producers throw in the towel in the next year or so. There's also the issue of civil unrest in countries that rely heavily on oil revenue. Morgan Stanley's Adam Longson lays out the risk of low prices (mostly super-high prices later):  Losing too much investment or stimulating demand could create a price shock in future years as necessary supply growth cannot return quickly once curtailed. If anything, removing the “OPEC put” should raise the hurdle rate required on oil projects, which may require even high prices for higher cost and risky projects. Moreover, as prices fall, outage risks rise, particularly from financially stressed nations that cannot maintain subsidies (e.g. Venezuela, Nigeria, etc.). As subsidies are lifted, the risk of civil unrest tends to rise, putting production at risk. With little spare capacity today, the market has few options to deal with a large outage. Basically, MS is saying that the OPEC cartel has lost, or given up, its control of the market, which will inevitably lead to more volatility. Without producers being able to rely on OPEC keeping prices stable at a relatively high level, investing in infrastructure for oil production projects is going to become more risky, and therefore more expensive. This is bad for production in places were costs are high like the US and Canada (which will ultimately lead to much higher prices in a couple of years as demand increases). It could also lead to civil unrest in places like Nigeria and Venezuela, whose economies are much more reliant on oil profits, and don't necessarily have the cushion to keep subsidies going until prices level off. Here's how the freefalling price of oil is affecting Venezuela, from Linette Lopez's post earlier this week: In the past year the country's inflation rate has grown to about 64%, its export basket has fallen over $30 to $68.97 (a four-year low), and currency reserves are at an all-time low. For the past month, Venezuelan bonds have been selling off at breakneck speed. Venezuela's foreign minister Rafael Ramirez told reporters earlier this month that the country was ready to cut oil production. The commodity makes up 95% of the Venezuela's export revenue. The country needs the average price of oil to sit at about $85 to pay for imports and keep up with its debt. It has been struggling with the former for some time. Household goods like toilet paper are scarce in the country, and shoppers wait in long lines for government supermarkets — even sometimes getting their arms marked with their spot in line. So, as we enjoy the extra discretionary spending power from low enegy costs, we must remember that cheap energy isn't free. FREE AppDownload
Patricia Fletcher is a New York-based voice-over and dialect coach explains how to speak with a proper British accent. Produced by Matthew Stuart Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Christie'sHong Kong (AFP) - An ancient Tibetan silk tapestry has set a world record for Chinese art after it was sold to a Shanghai tycoon for $45 million (HK$348 million) at auction in Hong Kong, according to Christie's. The 600-year-old artwork, called a thangka and embroidered in vivid hues of red and gold, was bought by Liu Yiqian on Wednesday and will be displayed at his new museum in Shanghai, the auction house said. "I am proud to bring back to China this significant and historic 15th century thangka which will be preserved in the Long museum for years to come," he was quoted as saying in a Christie's press release Thursday. Hong Kong has emerged as one of the biggest global auction hubs alongside New York and London, fuelled by China's economic boom and demand from Chinese and other Asian collectors. The sale broke the world record for any Chinese work of art sold by an international auction house. The piece -- which depicts the meditational deity Raktayamari, known as the Red Conqueror of Death, standing stride a buffalo -- was created during the Ming dynasty between 1402 and 1424. It is one of a set of three thangkas from the Jokhang Monastery in the Tibetan capital Lhasa, according to Christie's. In April, Liu bought a Ming Dynasty wine cup which broke the world auction record for Chinese porcelain in Hong Kong for $36.05 million (HK$281.24 million). A taxi driver-turned-financier now aged 50, Liu is one of China's wealthiest men and among the country's new class of super-rich scouring the globe for artwork. He is worth an estimated $1.6 billion. FREE AppDownload
ReutersDATE IMPORTED:March 11, 2010Lance Corpral Alan Leiper (L) and Private Kris Green push a wooden cask of Mortlach 70-year-old single malt whisky at Edinburgh castle in Scotland March 11, 2010.Nothing says "Happy Holidays" like the warm embrace of brown liquor. And we mean whiskey. Chances are you know someone who loves the stuff as much as we do, but you may not know what kind of gift to get the whiskey lover in your life. Here are some strong suggestions. With the help of Robert Haynes-Peterson, Business Insider has put together a list of the best whiskeys to drink this holiday season, and other great gifts for any whiskey-lover.  Drinks, books, stocking stuffers — it's all in there. The only thing you need to do is pour. Enjoy. FREE AppDownload
WikimediaOf all the fast-growing BRIC countries, only India stands strong right now. Its economy seems perfectly structured to handle our delicate, and dangerous, global market. A year and a half ago, emerging markets fell into chaos when the Federal Reserve signaled that the American economy had improved enough to end its asset-buying program, and investors began pulling out of foreign markets.  India was in a vulnerable place then — its current account deficit had been at 6.9% in late 2012, and outflows hit the economy hard. Plus, inflation was on the rise and growth was stagnating. But today, while much of the world is in dark place economically — Brazil is embroiled in a corruption scandal, sanctions continue to constrain Russia's economy, China is slowing down, and unemployment persists in the EU — India stands out as a star performer: the one emerging market perfectly positioned for growth. So how did massive, decentralized India — home to 1.3 billion people, five major religions, and more than 20 official languages — get to this point?   Toru Hanai/Reuters Let’s start with Modi.  In May’s general election, Narendra Modi shot to power with a 52 percent majority for his Bharatiya Janata Party (India’s first majority government in 30 years) and some serious promises to whip the economy into shape. He'd campaigned as a pro-business candidate who turned his home state, Gujarat, into a flourishing investment destination. So, with a comfortable cabinet majority, everyone hoped he could pull off reforms at the national level too.  One early challenge was the budget, which came out in July. With it, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley announced plans to reduce the fiscal deficit, cut subsidies, invest in infrastructure, boost domestic savings and investment, and introduce a GST.  The new administration also cut down the number of cabinet members to reduce inefficiencies and began tracking public employees' attendance at work with a video surveillance system. Six months into power, Modi's government has made important strides toward economic growth, and it has already started to boost investor confidence:  dshort.comCheck out India's main stock index (in brown) compared to everyone else But Modi is not the only reason investors are so confident. India is also one of the least-exposed emerging markets to China, which is now facing mounting deflation fears, a collapsing housing market, and an economy growing at its slowest rate in decades. Credit SuisseThough China and India share a 2520-mile border, they have never been great friends, and now that strained relationship is helping India.  Researchers predict India will focus increasingly on import substitution and domestic demand-led growth going forward. It's better-suited to do this than most countries, because its reliance on external demand is already so low.  Favorable demographics also help the picture: India's dependency ratio is declining and almost 30 percent of the population is under the age of 14. Those people will make up the country’s consumers, employers, workers, and taxpayers in the decades to come.  Think of how different that is from China's demographic future where an aging population will eventually make for a high dependency ratio. Not bad, India. Here's what else is going on: India has made more progress than any other emerging market in lowering its current account deficit — and vulnerability to outflows — since the Fed shocked the markets last year by threatening to stop its bond-buying program. Right now the deficit is just 1 percent of GDP. Morgan Stanley With the recent drop in global oil and gold prices — which, together, make up 45 percent of India’s imports — researchers at Capital Economics predict India could be running a current account surplus over the coming months. The Modi government has taken big steps toward reducing debt — cutting diesel subsidies by half, increasing taxes on diesel and petrol, and marketing its stakes in Coal India and the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation. REUTERS/Mukesh Gupta  Despite these efforts, India will probably miss its fiscal target (of 4.1 percent in F2015). That's due in part to a high base-line left behind by the previous administration. But, according to researchers at Lombard Street Research, it might not be such a bad thing. The economy is running below capacity right now, and a little extra spending could help give it a boost. So basically India’s looking pretty good... but Modi's administration does have its critics.  The new debt-reducing policies are definitely unpopular: in June, protestors around the country took to the streets when the government raised train fares by 14.2 percent. Freight fares jumped 6.5 percent.  (Riots are old news for the 64-year-old Prime Minister, who faced criticism as chief minister of Gujarat for allegedly condoning anti-Muslim violence in 2002. The U.S, UK, and EU boycotted him for a while, and today he's still widely regarded as a Hindu nationalist.) Rupak De Chowdhuri/ReutersNow, Modi maintains a steady focus on the economy, which is not yet in the clear. GDP growth is sliding. Exports were down 5 percent YOY in October and GDP growth weakened to 5.3 percent last quarter from 5.7 percent in Q2.  That's partly a result of slow global demand (hence wanting to boost domestic demand) and partly due to supply-side constraints, like a tight supply of coal.  Structural reforms are needed, but in the world's largest democracy, that will take time. Nobody's holding out for a big bang or sudden change. But Modi supporters say he's got this. The winter parliamentary session kicked off this week, and reforms in finance, infrastructure, taxation, labor, and land acquisition will be top of the agenda. Also this week, U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman flew to Delhi for trade talks, and in January, President Obama will come to visit for India’s Republic Day celebrations. Larry Downing/ReutersIt's a bit of a change since 2002, when the U.S. denied Modi entry after his alleged involvement in the Gujarat riots. But as other countries face economic woes, India is becoming an increasingly important business partner for America. Meanwhile, for India, weak export demand could be the biggest obstacle to economic ascent, so the U.S., a major buyer of India's goods, would play an important role in the country's success.  So even if dreary global demand does pull India down, it very likely won't fall as far as everyone else.  That would still be a victory. FREE AppDownload
VIENNA (Reuters) - Saudi Arabia's oil minister told fellow OPEC members they must combat the U.S. shale oil boom, arguing against cutting crude output in order to depress prices and undermine the profitability of North American producers. Ali al-Naimi won the argument at Thursday's meeting, against the wishes of ministers from OPEC's poorer members such as Venezuela, Iran and Algeria which had wanted to cut production to reverse a rapid fall in oil prices. They were not prepared to offer big cuts themselves, and, choosing not to clash with the Saudis and their rich Gulf allies, ultimately yielded to Naimi's pressure. "Naimi spoke about market share rivalry with the United States. And those who wanted a cut understood that there was no option to achieve it because the Saudis want a market share battle," said a source who was briefed by a non-Gulf OPEC minister after Thursday's meeting. Oil hit a fresh four-year low below $72 per barrel on Friday [O/R]. A boom in shale oil production and weaker growth in China and Europe have sent prices down by over a third since June. "You think we were convinced? What else could we do?" said an OPEC delegate from a country that had argued for a cut. Secretary General Abdullah al-Badri effectively confirmed OPEC was entering a battle for market share. Asked on Thursday if the organization had a answer to rising U.S. production, he said: "We answered. We keep the same production. There is an answer here". OPEC agreed to maintain -- a "rollover" in OPEC jargon -- its ceiling of 30 million barrels per day, at least 1 million above its own estimate of demand for its oil in the first half of next year. Analysts said the decision not to cut output in the face of drastically falling prices was a strategic shift for OPEC. "It is a brave new world. OPEC is clearly drawing a line in the sand at 30 million bpd. Time will tell who will be left standing," said Yasser Elguindi of Medley Global Advisors. The OPEC delegate from one of the countries that wanted a cut, said: "OPEC has lost credibility," and added: "I don't know how practical it is to try to kick shale out of the market." Several OPEC ministers who wanted a cut left the meeting room visibly frustrated and kept silent for several hours although when they spoke later they said they accepted the decision. "We are together," said Venezuelan Foreign Minister Rafael Ramirez when asked whether there was a price war within OPEC. "OPEC is always fighting with the United States because the United States has declared it is always against OPEC... Shale oil is a disaster as a method of production, the fracking. But also it is too expensive. And there we are going to see what will happen with production," he said. A Gulf delegate said Naimi had reassured members that the oil price would recover as demand will ultimately pick up. But he insisted that if OPEC cut output it would lose market share. "Reaching a final decision took a lot of time convincing the others," said another delegate. Several analysts and oil executives have suggested it would take many months to have an impact on U.S. oil production. Even some Gulf delegates said they were not convinced Naimi's gamble would work. One said: "If they are really after U.S. shale, how much would this rollover slow them (U.S. producers) down?"   (Additional reporting by Rania El Gamal and Shadia Nasralla; Writing by Dmitry Zhdannikov; Editing by Robin Pomeroy) FREE AppDownload
One of the benefits of Thanksgiving is that you get to hang out with people from different generations. Yesterday, I hung out with someone from a different generation — a post-Millennial that I am told is from the generation known as "Gen Z." I explained to the Gen Z-er that my social media usage is limited to a niche news service called Twitter and an occasional dip into Facebook. The Gen Z-er smiled knowingly. She then explained that she and her friends rarely use Facebook and Twitter, but are otherwise addicted to social media. The big winner, she says, the service that everyone uses, is Instagram. I asked her why. "Because parents see the little camera icon and think it's a photo app," she said. "They don't know it's a social network." Some people do use Snapchat, the Gen Z-er said, but parents know that one is a social network. And it has a "bad reputation," so some kids aren't allowed to use it. And also the pictures disappear — except when they don't disappear because your "friend" takes a screenshot of your picture and sends it to everyone they know (and everyone knows how to do that). Then there are Vine and Tumblr and YouTube and WhatsApp and Google Plus, et al, all of which are used for different things and by different people at different times, the Gen Z-er said. (So much for the old theory that there would be one social network to rule them all). I asked the Gen Z-er to walk me through all of these difference use-cases and attributes. So she did. If you're doing "fandom," she said — sharing excitement and news about a band, game, movie, book, show, YouTuber, et al — you use Tumblr or Instagram. You can also use Google Plus, but that's basically like email. If you want to hang out and chat with friends, you use Snapchat, Google Plus, Facebook, and texting. The texting, by the way, is primarily through standard texting or Apple's iMessage. Most people don't have WhatsApp. If you want to look at funny stuff and post funny stuff, you use Instagram, Vine, Twitter, and maybe YouTube. Vine's video editing tools are better than Instagram's, the Gen Z-er says. And Instagram's video playback is sometimes buggy. If you want to brag about being popular and post selfies and groupies, you use Instagram and maybe Snapchat — basically anything but Vine and Twitter.)  If you're depressed or creepy, you use Tumblr. Or you can just follow and post sad stuff on Instagram. No one uses Facebook anymore, the Gen Z-er says. Facebook is just for old people posting pictures of their kids and grand-kids. These people, by the way, are now starting to infiltrate Instagram. They do this to try to keep an eye on their kids or to try to seem super-hip. Pinterest, meanwhile, just gets a shake of the head from the Gen Z-er. No one uses it. (An ancient Boomer nearby pipes in to suggest that Pinterest is used by "old ladies" posting pictures of knitting. The Boomer then adds that she herself is one of these old ladies.) What about phone calls? Do people ever talk anymore? No, the Gen Z-er says. They just text. Everyone does have a phone number. But phone numbers are for texting, not talking. Well, actually, the Gen Z-er adds, people who are dating occasionally talk. And also people who are doing group homework assignments. In case anyone thinks social media has changed social dynamics in some meaningful way, rest assured — it hasn't. Kids are still as clique-y and mean to each other as they have always been — and as adults often are. And there is still a rigid social hierarchy that everyone knows about. It's just that the tools for imposing this hierarchy, and forever reminding everyone of their place in it, have changed. For example: Unpopular kids will occasionally try to become more popular by following popular kids on Instagram. The popular kids, however, may respond to this overture by blocking the unpopular kids. For an unpopular kid, being blocked by a popular kid is worse than being passively ignored by the popular kid, because everyone can see that you're blocked. And when you're blocked, you can't see or share or comment on anything that the popular kids post, so you don't even know what the popular kids are thinking or saying or liking or talking about. You also can't even search for the popular kids, because their names won't show up. It's like you don't even exist. By the way, all the popular kids have brand new iPhones, the Gen Z-er says. Or fancy Samsungs. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eddie KeoghChairman Vernon Hill with Metro Bank staff at the Holborn "store", central London.Metro Bank's Holborn offices really look more like a cinema than a bank. When I first stepped in, there was none of the library-like silence I'm used to at my own branch. It felt much more like what Metro Bank prefers it's branches to be called: a "store." Chairman Vernon Hill is pretty much what you would expect from an American opening a bank in the UK. He's bullish, straight to the point, and busy. "You look about 11 years old online," was the first thing he said when I met him "but you look at least 12 in person." It's quite hard not to be taken in by the patter and glitz: and clearly I have been. I just signed up for an account. But that's also a sign of how drab and uncompetitive British banking is.  Metro Bank is one of a wave of "challenger banks" sniping at the big UK institutions: these include stand-alone firms like Aldemore and OneSavings Bank, as well as established consumer firms that have dived into banking, like Virgin, Marks &amp; Spencer and Tesco.  Hill set up Commerce Bank in the US, and he says they've basically followed the same model in the UK: Our model is based in America and in Britain on service and convenience... This is in a market where the big five banks have run a cartel for years and taken the consumer for granted. I like to say that the major banks here, service is sort of a glaze on top of their business.  We're operating pretty much like we did in America, where New York was our number one market. Everything with did in America works better in Britain. The hours, the service, the the convenience, the dogs (see below), the coin counting, all the gimmicks. The myth was that Brits wouldn't switch banks... About 400,000 people have switched to us in just over 4 years. That's about triple my Manhattan growth rates. So we would say that's a myth... They also have a philosophy that they're doing you a favour by letting you bank with them. They have a word for it, they let you apply for an account... We learned to operate on a much more competitive world where if we didn't provide something different we weren't gonna be around long.  Business Insider The sort of gimmicks Hill mentioned are easy to see in the store: they've got coin-counting and sorting machines, along with water bowls for customers' dogs (Hill is a dog owner). He goes on: The British banks, I've said this may times before, they have or had a cartel going and because of that they could overcharge, under-serve, and they've massively under-invested in their business. All you have to do is walk past any UK bank branch to see what the word "underinvestment" means. But it's not just a series of gimmicks that's brought nearly half a million people to the bank, which only set up in the UK in 2010. The bank is open pretty much-year round (362 days), and runs until 8 p.m. on weekday evenings.  It doesn't seem to be competing largely on price: nobody at any point raised the interest rates offered on the accounts (though they are displayed prominently in the branch). It seems like they're betting that interest rates on most bank accounts are now so low that there's not very much to differentiate them. The emphasis is almost totally on service and efficiency, and Hill says it's picking up business customers too:  We're more than half commercial here, because as under-served as consumers are, the SME segment up to middle-market size is massively under-served by the UK banks. It's incredibly difficult for them even to open an account. One of the problems with the British banks are that their IT systems are one step above a quill. They're way out of date, the banks have admitted it. You can't deliver service even if you want to if your IT doesn't give you the information you need. REUTERS/Toby MelvilleThe generous opening hours at Metro Bank are one of its major selling points. That's one noticeable thing about Metro bank: as is understandable for a new bank, it doesn't have the legacy IT problems that older institution struggles with. Each desk has a Windows tablet to process new accounts, there's not a desktop computer in sight. And with nothing holding them down, they're planning to float in 2016. CEO Craig Donaldson said recently that he'd like to see the bank in the FTSE 100 by 2019, and that's something Hill repeated: We've raised £650m in capital. It's 95% American money. You could look at Metro bank as a billion dollar investment in British banking... The Americans had seen me do this once before at Commerce. Over and beyond that, it's obvious to me that American investors will always invest for growth. British institutional stock investors seem to be reluctant to invest for growth... At the rate we're growing I'm sure we'll make that (entering the FTSE 100) happen. We've announced that our plan is to float in 2016, and we expect to have by 2020 assets over £25 billion ($). Which should give us a market cap of around £4-5 billion, that is definitely FTSE 100. We should be turning into the black around the time we float, I'm not sure exactly what quarter. While that's important to us, it's not as important as growing our business and building our brand. So a few days after talking to Hill, I went back into the store to sign up for an account. I'm happy to be rid of my previous, unnamed bank. What's most interesting about Metro Bank is that I barely even needed to be convinced. Satisfaction with the big four banks is below 60%, so they're working with an extremely receptive audience already. If other people in the UK are anything like me, get used to Metro Bank.  FREE AppDownload
It has been a remarkable few days for crude oil. But back in May, hedge fund manager Zach Schreiber said he saw this coming. At the Ira Sohn Investing Conference, Schreiber, the founder of hedge fund PointState Capital who worked under hedge fund legend Stanley Druckenmiller for six years at Duquesne Capital, said that oil was going lower. According to Josh Brown's big recap of the Sohn Conference, Schreiber said he wanted to be net short crude oil, saying, "It's going lower, much lower." On Thursday, OPEC, the 12-nation oil exporting cartel, announced that it would not reduce production. Many expected OPEC to cut production in order to curb the steep drop in oil prices that has taken place in the last few months, and a result of Thursday's meeting, oil prices got slammed with WTI futures falling below $70 for the first time since June 2010.  "US crude is being drilled for by the same cast of characters who oversupplied the natural gas market. Ladies and gentlemen, the song remains the same," Schreiber said. Schreiber said that oil production wouldn't meaningfully slow until oil fell below about $80 a barrel.  We're now about $10 lower than that. Schreiber added that, "Crude strength has led to complacency an complacency is a killer." Earlier this year, WTI prices rallied from about $90 to $105 a barrel, and overall, oil has held up well over the last couple years, trading between about $85 and $105 a barrel for most of that time.  And according to Josh's notes, Schreiber ended his presentation with a great quote from Rudiger Dornbusch, which now basically says everything that needs to be said about the breakdown in oil. "In economics, crisis takes a much longer time coming than you think, and then it happens much faster than you would have thought." FREE AppDownload
If you hold airline stocks, you're probably jumping for joy. Plummeting global oil prices are producing a welcome perk for airlines stock prices, with all the global leading firms on a positive path.  The growth has been consistent in the last few weeks, as shown by the graphic below, but most stocks received a real boost after OPEC ruled it will not cut production in the near future. Yahoo Finance Air China leads the way, but many other airlines are having a good time. Cost of fuel is one of the main operating costs for airlines, and with Brent crude currently trading at less than $73 a barrel, it's happy days at airline HQs. Here are the stock prices of a few airline companies, as you can see the trend is common to quality airlines (Lufthansa) as well as low-cost (easyJet) and from Australia to the US. Investing.comInvesting.comInvesting.comInvesting.comInvesting.comInvesting.comInvesting.comInvesting.com FREE AppDownload
LONDON (Reuters) - World investors eased back on their exposure to risk assets such as stocks as they grappled with divergent monetary policies and multi-speed growth paths among major world economies, a global poll shows. A monthly survey of 47 senior investors in the United States, Europe, Britain and Japan found the average recommended exposure to stocks in global balanced portfolios eased for a second consecutive month to 49.1 percent in November from 49.5 percent. "The greatest risk remains disappointment on global growth level ... Markets remain vulnerable to any negative newsflow on macroeconomic indicators, be it in the Euro zone, in the US or even in China," Dexia Asset Management said in comment sent to Reuters for the poll. An end to monetary stimulus, in place since the financial crisis, in the United States and Britain as their economies gather momentum stands in marked contrast to policies elsewhere. Japan, the Eurozone and China are moving toward boosting money supply to counter sluggish or falling economic growth, leaving investors with an uncertain environment to grapple with. Many still feel global growth is shaky - as evidenced in recent falls in global oil prices prompted by worries energy demand will be weak. Global investors' cash allocations - used as a safe haven in times of volatile markets - eased back to 6.2 percent in November, the poll showed, but remained close to the year's high of 6.7 percent reached in October. Allocations to bonds - also seen as a safe haven relative to equities - rose to 36.8 percent from 36.4 percent. The poll was taken from Nov. 14-27, when world stocks &lt;.MIWD00000PUS&gt; recovered more of the poise lost during the volatility seen in mid-October and gained close to 2 percent. The U.S. S&amp;P 500 index &lt;.SPX&gt; set a record high during the survey period, climbing more than 1.5 percent. Emerging-market stocks &lt;.MSCIEF&gt; also posted a more than 1.5 percent gain during the survey period. They remain more than 7 percent off a September peak for the year, battered by a strong U.S. dollar luring investment away, fears of China slowing down and fallout from the standoff with Russia over its role in Ukraine. U.S. fund managers cut their recommended equity allocation in model portfolios for a sixth consecutive month and increased their bond holdings. Recommended stock holdings for U.S investors fell to 54.4 percent in November from 55.0 percent in the previous month. [US/ASSET] European investors built up holdings of safe-haven cash by 60 basis points to 8.6 percent. Exposure to stocks was cut to 47.1 percent on average from 47.7 percent a month earlier. [EUR/ASSET] Japanese fund managers' allocations to equities inched down to 43.2 percent in November from 43.6 percent in October and allocations to bonds was little changed at 51.8 percent from 52.0 percent the previous month. [JP/ASSET] British investment managers kept equity allocations at a two-year low this month at 51.7 percent, and property holdings at multi-year highs of 4.7 percent. They reduced their cash holdings to an average of 8.3 percent, down from last month's multi-year highs of 11.2 percent but still higher than at any other time in the past year. [GB/ASSET]   (Additional reporting by Sam Wilkin, Rahul Karunakar, Deepti Govind and Shinichi Saoshiro) FREE AppDownload
Hodinkee, InstagamTwo generations of A. Lange & Sohne ChronographsThere comes a time in every gentleman's life when he starts to value time — he values it so much, in fact, that he wants to wear it as a gorgeous piece on his wrist. At this point, it is time to start a watch collection. This should be done carefully. A gentleman should conduct his research before selecting his first watch. It is a deduction that requires an understanding of not only what is out there, but also of one's own personal style. And of course, one's own financial limitations. "Unless you're spending $5,000 to $10,000 you're not going to have an investment-grade watch," says Benjamin Clymer, editor of men's watch site, Hodinkee. "Just make sure you buy something that you love ... Really do your homework. ... There's nothing worse than realizing you don't have the watch that you think you have." Now here's what you can have. You must decide if you would like your watch to be automatic or manual (meaning you'll have to wind it). You must decide if you would like to purchase a vintage watch (from, say, eBay or a flea market) or a new watch. After that, there are still almost too many options, so here are some things to keep in mind. "Like so many other things in men’s dress, it is best to keep your watch pretty simple and restrained," says Justin Jeffers of men's style blog, The Fine Young Gentleman. "Not restrained in the sense that you shouldn’t wear a $25,000 watch ... But restrained in the sense that a man shouldn’t wear some oversized, over iced or over styled watch (or anything else) on his wrist. ... A watch should not be so big that your shirt cuff cannot fit over it. There are few things more gaudy than a huge watch face staring you in the face from someone else’s wrist. It takes attention away from the things that matter (like the wearer's face) and puts it where it doesn’t matter (the wearer's wrist)." Now let's say you're starting out at a fairly low price point (under $500). What should you get? Consider going vintage; it's more work but it's also more rewarding. Clymer recommends purchasing an old Omega brand.  You'll want to make sure the vintage piece you buy has as much of its old parts intact as possible, especially with things you can see, like the dial or the face. You want your watch to look old — like it's been passed down from generation to generation. "The dream watch for a vintage watch collector is a watch that has never been serviced or messed with at all," says Clymer. If you want a new watch, things are a little different. "To get a really good mechanical watch [under $500] you're going to want to look at Seiko," said Clymer. Citizen Citizen, Eco-Drive $250You could also check out Pulsar, Timex, Citizen, Daniel Wellington, Bulova, Shinola, ESQ, Luminox, and Tissot. There's a debate raging in the men's watch world about whether or not you should buy from a company that creates items other than watches (like, say, a Burberry) — but it's bloody, and Business Insider is staying out of it. What's more important is that you take care of your watch. "Keep your watch away from super magnets (large speakers, buckyballs, etc).  Although unlikely, it could move pieces inside," says Kirk Miller, nation editor at men's lifestyle newsletter, InsideHook. "Extreme temperature changes, shouldn't be a problem, but again be careful. Expansion and contraction do funny things to watch insides. Leave your watch in the locker when going into the sauna." And take care of how you use your watch, as well. "Do not wear a sports or digital watch with a suit. It’s like putting VW wheels on an Audi," says Jeffers. All this said, you're going to have to service your watch. Especially if you buy something high end or vintage. If your watch is new, you can take it to the manufacturer. If it's vintage, make sure to go to someone who understands what you want, and won't Frankenstein your watch with new parts you don't want. If you do all that, your watch could last forever. FREE AppDownload
BOSTON (Reuters) - Stock-picking fund managers are testing their investors’ patience with some of the worst investment returns in decades. With bad bets on financial shares, missed opportunities in technology stocks and too much cash on the sidelines, roughly 85 percent of active large-cap stock funds have lagged their benchmark indexes through Nov. 25 this year, according to an analysis by Lipper, a Thomson Reuters research unit. It is likely their worst comparative showing in 30 years, Lipper said. Some long-term advocates of active management may be turned off by the results, especially considering the funds' higher fees. Through Oct. 31, index stock funds and exchange traded funds have pulled in $206.2 billion in net deposits. Actively managed funds, a much larger universe, took in a much smaller $35.6 billion, sharply down from the $162 billion taken in during 2013, their first year of net inflows since 2007. Jeff Tjornehoj, head of Lipper Americas Research, said investors will have to decide if they have the stomach to stick with active funds in hopes of better results in the future. “A year like this sorts out what kind of investor you are,” he said. Even long-time standout managers like Bill Nygren of the $17.8 billion Oakmark Fund and Jason Subotky of the $14.2 billion Yacktman Fund are lagging, at a time when advisers are growing more focused on fees. The Oakmark fund, which is up 11.82 percent this year through Nov. 25, charges 0.95 percent of assets in annual fees, compared with 0.09 percent for the SPDR S&amp;P 500 exchange traded fund, which mimics the S&amp;P 500 and is up almost 14 percent this year, according to Morningstar. The Yacktman fund is up 10.2 percent over the same period and charges 0.74 percent of assets in annual fees. The pay-for-active-performance camp argues that talented managers are worth paying for and will beat the market over investment cycles. Rob Brown, chief investment strategist for United Capital, which has $11 billion under management and keeps about two thirds of its mutual fund holdings in active funds, estimates that good managers can add an extra 1 percent to returns over time compared with an index-only strategy. Indeed, the top active managers have delivered. For example, $10,000 invested in the Yacktman Fund on Nov. 23, 2004, would have been worth $27,844 on Nov. 25 of this year; the same amount invested in the S&amp;P 500 would be worth $21,649, according to Lipper. Even so, active funds as a group tend to lag broad market indexes, though this year's underperformance is extreme. In the rout of 2008, when the S&amp;P 500 fell 38 percent, more than half of the active large cap stock funds had declines that were greater than those of their benchmarks, Lipper found. The last time when more than half of active large cap stock managers beat their index was 2009, when the S&amp;P 500 was up 26 percent. That year, 55 percent of these managers beat their benchmarks. In 2014, some recurring bad market bets were made by various active managers. Holding too much cash was one. Yacktman's Subotky said high stock prices made him skeptical of buying new shares, leaving him with 17 percent of the fund's holdings in cash while share prices have continued to rise. He cautioned investors to have patience. "Our goal is never to capture every last drop of a roaring bull market," Subotky said Oakmark's Nygren cited his light weighting of hot Apple shares and heavy holdings of underperforming financials, but said his record should be judged over time. "Very short-term performance comparisons, good or bad, may bear little resemblance to long term results," he said. Shares of Apple, the world's most valuable publicly traded company, are up 48 percent year to date. As of Sept 30, Apple stock made up 1.75 percent of Oakmark's assets, compared with 3.69 percent of the SPDR S&amp;P 500 ETF. Investors added $3.9 billion to Nygren's fund through Nov. 19, Lipper said. Still, some managers risk losing their faithful. "We have been very much believers in active management but a number of our active managers have let us down this year and we are rethinking our strategy," said Martin Hopkins, president of an investment management firm in Annapolis, Maryland, that has $4 million in the Yacktman Fund. Derek Holman of EP Wealth Advisors, in Torrance, California, which manages about $1.8 billion, said his firm recently moved $130 million from a pair of active large cap funds into ETFs, saying it would save clients about $650,000 in fees per year. Holman said his firm still uses active funds for areas like small-cap investing, but it is getting harder for fund managers to gain special insights about large companies. For those managers, he said, "it's getting harder to stand out."    (Reporting by Ross Kerber; Editing by Linda Stern and Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersRussian President Vladimir Putin taking part in a live broadcast nationwide phone-in in MoscowSOCHI, Russia (Reuters) - Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Friday he was confident the oil market would find its balance by the middle of next year. "I am confident that in the first quarter, in the middle of next year the (oil) market will find a balance," Putin told a meeting with the chief executive officer of France's Total &lt;totf.pa&gt;, Patrick Pouyanne. Brent crude oil steadied below $73 a barrel on Friday after hitting a fresh four-year low following OPEC's decision not to cut output. Putin added he had expected oil prices to fall after OPEC's meeting and said Moscow had not insisted on any specific action to stabilize them.   (Reporting by Denis Dyomkin; writing by Katya Golubkova, editing by Elizabeth Piper) FREE AppDownload
A handful of traders are actually working today. JonesTrading's Dave Lutz has what they're chatting about. Good Morning!   Brief little note this AM, we are having a lazy Friday after Thanksgiving.   Overseas markets are a bit weaker (DAX off 40bp) – but they seem to be just giving back some of yesterday’s gains.    Globally, Banks had a VERY strong day, gaining 2%+ in India, Japan and China, while they are mixed in US/UK.  Stock Market Almanac notes last Trading Day of November, S&amp;P Up 6 of Last 7  Brent Crude was trading yesterday, and lost ~6% on the News OPEC opted not to cut production – WTI re-opens for trading today in the USA, and it’s marked off 6.5% this AM to new 4Y+ lows below $80.  XOP, OIH and XLE will all have a very tough go this AM.  Airlines should jump higher (Mostly up 4%+), while we could see flow of funds coming from the Rails.  Watch the HY market – Energy makes up 15% of the sector, and with OPEC targeting putting the “weaker” US Energy plays out of business.  That said, the US 10YY is testing the “Gundlach Floor” of 2.2%, but Germany’s yields have taken out that Oct 15 “Flash Crash” low, so demand continues for Global Sov Debt.   REITS, Utes and Staples will like this tailwind  Gold is losing ground fast – finally getting exhausted attempting to break upside $1200/oz, and is off 50bp.  Silver, where the street has finally gone Net Short – is off 3%.  NUGT, GDX and GDXJ may have a tough day  Retailers will be in focus as headlines come in from “Black Friday” sales (and Oil collapsing)  Target.Com Says It Had Biggest Online Sales Day Ever Yday Amazon Thanksgiving Comp. Sales Up 28.2%: Channel Advisor Thanksgiving Online Sales Up 12.2% at 6pm: IBM Benchmark IBM Says Online Sales From Nov. 24 to Nov. 25 up 8.8% Y/y Wal-Mart Says &gt;22m Customers Visited Its Stores on Thanksgiving Macy’s CEO Says Outerwear Best-Selling Apparel Category Finally, WTO adopted a Historic Trade Deal After Months-Long Standoff - $1T dollars and 21mln jobs should be added to the world economy.   FREE AppDownload
The major automakers will report November sales next week. The expectation is that the pace for 2014 will remain brisk. By the time we wrap up the year, the U.S. auto industry should have sold between 16 and 17 million new cars and trucks. There are naysayers who think this sales pace is unsustainable. They point mainly to the credit markets, where automakers' finance arms and banks have expanded subprime lending. It's a bubble! It's all going to collapse! Except that it probably isn't. Easy credit is worth keeping an eye on. But for the time being, it doesn't seem especially troubling.  There are two other major drivers of sales: average vehicle age; and improving household budgets. The first of these is straightforward. The average age of a vehicle on U.S. roads is 11 years. That's ridiculous. Americans don't drive old cars. It took a complete meltdown of the global financial system and the worst crisis since the Great Depression to change a decades-old pattern for U.S. carbuyers. The second is now beginning to assert itself in the auto market. As the unemployment rate has fallen, hiring has slowly picked up, and households have shed debt. In a research note published Friday, Sterne Agee analysts Michael Ward highlighted this trend: That's a striking figure. Transportation for most households is right up there with shelter and food, so to be below trend by a full percentage point, and to have been below trend for a decade, is just one of those things that is going to correct — and is in fact correcting now. FREDCan you spot the trend? Observers of the economy who want to make a case for an impending downturn have for what amounts to a few years been attacking resurgent auto sales as a harbinger of bad news that's just over the horizon.  It reminds me of all the folks who were insisting that U.S. government borrowing after the financial crisis was going to bring on the bond vigilantes at some point and generate higher inflation. The people complaining about resurgent auto sales seem to actually want households to be needlessly austere in dealing with the transportation needs. I won't get into the whole issue of how if you have a job you need to get to that job, and for the vast majority of Americans, the getting there happens in a car. There's also a subset of auto industry observers who would like the auto industry to go away, replaced by car sharing and various forms of mass transit. Over the very long term, they could be on to something; Silicon Valley ideas about self-driving cars and advanced mobility solutions are looking much more predictive than speculative. GoogleThe shape of things to come. But for the next few decades, personal auto ownership is likely to expand rather than contract, especially as emerging markets such as China realize their potential. The bottom line is that the auto industry in the U.S. is a the best shape it's been in since before the financial crisis. The industry is cyclical, so the good times can't last forever. But meaningful trends in the economy are currently supporting an ongoing recovery that has room to run. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons For many American consumers, it is the day after Thanksgiving when you can get great deals on goods that may eventually become Christmas presents. But why is it "black" Friday? There are a couple of stories. But the most commonly cited one has to do with ink, paper, and accounting. From Wikipedia (emphasis ours): Many merchants objected to the use of a negative term to refer to one of the most important shopping days in the year. By the early 1980s, an alternative theory began to be circulated: that retailers traditionally operated at a financial loss for most of the year (January through November) and made their profit during the holiday season, beginning on the day after Thanksgiving. When this would be recorded in the financial records, once-common accounting practices would use red ink to show negative amounts and black ink to show positive amounts. Black Friday, under this theory, is the beginning of the period when retailers would no longer have losses (the red) and instead take in the year's profits (the black). The earliest known use that presents the "black ink theory" appeared in the November 28, 1981 edition of the Philadelphia Inquirer: If the day is the year's biggest for retailers, why is it called Black Friday? Because it is a day retailers make profits – black ink, said Grace McFeeley of Cherry Hill Mall. "I think it came from the media," said William Timmons of Strawbridge &amp; Clothier. "It's the employees, we're the ones who call it Black Friday," said Belle Stephens of Moorestown Mall. "We work extra hard. It's a long hard day for the employees." This, like the 1961 and 1966 examples above, was found by Bonnie Taylor-Blake of the American Dialect Society. The Christmas shopping season is of enormous importance to American retailers and, while most retailers intend to and actually do make profits during every quarter of the year, some retailers are so dependent on the Christmas shopping season that the quarter including Christmas produces all the year's profits and compensates for losses from other quarters. So there you have it. It's about how much money retailers are making from you and me.    FREE AppDownload
 Today is Black Friday, the day after Thanksgiving when Americans stampede to stores in an effort to take advantage of what appear to be great deals. But it's a mistake for shoppers to think they're somehow winning at the cost of the retailer. Sure, it makes sense to buy a good when the price is discounted. But that feeling of confidence is exactly what the retailer wants as they bombard us with not-so-good deals. Brand guru Martin Lindstrom explained to Bloomberg's Joe Weisenthal that this psychology is the biggest way we're being manipulated by the retailers. "We fundamentally think we are rational," Lindstrom said. "But the reality is when we are out shopping, around 85% of what we do is irrational. It's subconscious." That discounted flat panel TV you're about to buy needs HDMI cables and hardwood TV stand, all of which come with fat profit margins for the seller. Those long checkout lines are easy ways for retailers to sell you some batteries or a $2 bottle of water. "When you go into a store, you are going into the soul of seduction," Lindstrom said. "And the more rational people think they are, the more vulnerable they become." Keep in mind why we call it "Black" Friday. Back in the day, businesses used ink and paper to keep track of their profits and losses. Red ink meant losses. Black ink meant profits. Black Friday is when retailers' red ink turns black. Watch Lindstrom's appearance at Bloomberg.com.    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jacky NaegelenSheep are gathered in front of the Eiffel tower in Paris during a demonstration of shepherds against the protection of wolves in France November 27, 2014.Good morning! Here are the major stories you need to know about before US markets open. OPEC Doesn't Cut. Despite months of tumbling oil prices, the members of OPEC agreed to make no cuts to production. From OPEC's statement: "Recording its concern over the rapid decline in oil prices in recent months, the Conference concurred that stable oil prices – at a level which did not affect global economic growth but which, at the same time, allowed producers to receive a decent income and to invest to meet future demand – were vital for world economic wellbeing. Accordingly, in the interest of restoring market equilibrium, the Conference decided to maintain the production level of 30.0 mb/d, as was agreed in December 2011." Oil Crashes. The major oil price benchmarks plunged over 6% following the OPEC announcement. WTI oil fell to as low as $67.75 per barrel and brent got as low as $71.12. Oil Stocks And Oil Currencies Move. Stocks, ETFs, and currencies linked to oil got punished. Underperforming energy companies led Australia's S&amp;P/ASX down 1.6%. The Russian rouble collapsed to 49.999 roubles to the dollar. Russia Thinks Oil Could Drop Below $60 Per Barrel. Russia's most powerful oil official Igor Sechin said in an interview with an Austrian newspaper that oil prices could fall below $60 by mid-way through next year. Sechin is chief executive of Rosneft, Russia's largest oil producer. Japanese Inflation Fell Below 1%. Excluding the effect of the sales tax hike, and volatile fresh food prices, Japanese inflation is now at its lowest level in more than a year, prompting concerns about the country's huge monetary stimulus.  Europe Inches Closer To Deflation. Prices in the eurozone climbed at a 0.3% rate in November, down from 0.4% in October. On a year-over-year basis, core prices are climbing at just a 0.7% rate. None of these falling numbers are expected to let up any time soon as oil prices continue to plunge. "We now expect the headline inflation rate to drop below zero at least briefly over the next six months and there is a clear danger of a more prolonged bout of falling prices," Capital Economics' Jonathan Loynes said. It Should Be A Quiet Friday. There are no major US economic reports scheduled for release today. The US stock markets close early at 1:00 p.m. ET. German Retail Sales Jumped In October. Retailers recorded a 1.9% increase in sales from September, to October, a better than expected start to a seasonal splurge. Analysts were looking for a 1.5% rise. Mexico's President Is Effectively Disbanding Local Police Forces. After the murder of 43 students by  a drug gang, allegedly with the co-operation of local police, Enrique Pena Nieto is proposing a totally unified Mexican police force.  Iraq Says Its Military Is Too Corrupt. Iraq's finance minister called for deep-rooted reforms to stamp out corruption in a military that collapsed in the face of an Islamic State advance, as he prepares to spend nearly a quarter of the 2015 budget on defence. FREE AppDownload
Gordon Tarpley / Flickr, CCEurope's major stock indices are all down this morning, after of eurozone inflation data came in at 0.3%, as expected. Here's the scorecard. France's CAC 40: -0.32% Germany's DAX: -0.32% The UK's FTSE 100: -0.59% Spain's IBEX: -0.52 Italy's FTSE MIB: -0.59% Asian markets were mixed: Japan's Nikkei rallied, closing up 1.23%, while Hong Kong's Hang Seng ended Friday down 0.07%. That's after figures showed Japanese inflation dropping below 1% for the first time in a year. US futures are down too: ahead of the open, the S&amp;P 500 is 4.25 points lower, and the Dow is down 29 points.  That's following European data showing inflation down to 0.3%, a joint-five year low. There's no US data out today, since it's the day after Thanksgiving. This page was last updated at 12:21 p.m. GMT. FREE AppDownload
Five days a week, a giant machine eats its way through soil at the Jaenschwalde open-cast mine in eastern Germany, exposing the brown coal buried beneath. Lignite, as this form of compressed peat is known, is becoming an increasingly important part of Germany's effort to phase out nuclear energy. It's also the reason why Atterwasch, a village that survived the Thirty Years' War, a Soviet onslaught at the end of World War II and four hard decades of communist rule is slated to be razed. The village, with its volunteer fire station and old brownstone church, is to make way for a strip mine in the next decade. Dozens of other villages have fallen victim to the same fate, as coal once again becomes king. The plan has many of Atterwasch's 250 inhabitants up in arms. "This is an ancient village," said long-time resident Monika Schulz-Hoepfner. Historical records first mention Atterwasch in 1294, and the house that she and her husband raised their three children in was built in 1740. Environmentalists, meanwhile, point out that Germany's hunger for lignite flies in the face of its green credentials. "Germany has a coal problem," said Regina Guenther, Director Climate and Energy at WWF Germany. "Despite the expansion of renewable energy the carbon emissions are rising because the dirtiest coal power plants are running at full steam." The low cost of coal-based energy means that the cleaner, but more expensive, gas power plants are not running at full capacity, she said. Vattenfall, one of Europe's biggest energy companies, says the five open cast lignite mines and three lignite power stations it operates in the Lusatia region a couple of hours drive southeast of Berlin provide over 33 000 jobs. Anti-mine campaigners put the figure much lower, but still conceded that the jobs run into the thousands, in an area with high unemployment. At least as important as the jobs is the energy that comes from the 60 million tons of lignite mined there each year. That's because Germany's ambitious plan to shut down all its nuclear reactors by 2022 and dramatically ramp up the use of renewable sources — known as the "energy switchover" — requires coal as a stopgap. "Lignite is part of the energy switchover because it offers a bridge to the time when, as is the goal in Germany, 80 or more percent of energy is generated by renewable means," said Thoralf Schirmer, a spokesperson for Vattenfall. Even after 2050, when all nuclear plants have been closed for 28 years and renewable sources should be highly developed, there will be a role for lignite, he said. "If you have little wind or sun available," he said, "then you have to rely on one of the remaining conventional energy sources." Last year, about a quarter of the German gross electricity production came from lignite, according to the German Federal Statistics Office. More than a third of the lignite — up to 10 percent of Germany's total energy supply — comes from the region around Atterwasch. Vattenfall has recently outlined plans to sell the German lignite mines and power plants as a part of the Swedish company's own drive toward renewable energy. But it is unlikely that the buyer of the plants would want to stop the mine expansion given the vast lignite deposits — estimated at hundreds of millions of tons — and potential profits to be made. The current plan, approved years ago, is to remove Atterwasch and two other nearby villages by 2025 to make way for an expansion of the Jaenschwalde mine. "We're making a sacrifice that isn't really necessary anymore," said Schulz-Hoepfner. "I think it's simply not legitimate to let old villages, which are part of our cultural heritage, fall into a coal hole anymore." She and others campaigning against the mine haven't given up hope that the village will be saved, and are appealing to the Brandenburg state government for help. To them, Atterwasch is "Heimat," she said, a German word that loosely translates as "home" but which signifies a deep emotional connection to a particular place. Its location near the present German-Polish border and the bilingual road signs in German and Sorbian — the language of Germany's Slavic ethnic minority — testify to the region's complex history. "It's like a tree that's dug its roots deep into the ground," said Schulz-Hoepfner. "And then someone comes along and wants to pull this healthy tree out." ___ Frank Jordans in Berlin contributed to this report. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
ROME (Reuters) - "Three for the price of two" used to be the most common special offer in Giorgio Santambrogio's supermarket chains. It has barely been used this year. The reason explains why efforts to resuscitate Italy's moribund economy are failing. "People aren't stocking up because they know prices will be lower in a month's time," says Santambrogio, chief executive of Vege, a Milan-based association covering 1,500 supermarkets and specialist stores. "Shoppers are demanding steeper and steeper discounts." Italy is stuck in a rut of diminishing expectations. Numbed by years of wage freezes, and skeptical the government can improve their economic fortunes, Italians are hoarding what money they have and cutting back on basic purchases, from detergent to windows. Weak demand has led companies to lower prices in the hope of luring people back into shops. This summer, consumer prices in Italy fell on a year-on-year basis for the first time in a half-century, and they have barely picked up since. Falling prices eat into company profits and lead to pay cuts and job losses, further depressing demand. The result: Italy is being sucked into a deflationary spiral similar to the one that has afflicted Japan's economy for much of the past two decades. That is the nightmare scenario that policymakers, led by European Central Bank chief Mario Draghi, are desperate to avoid. The euro zone's third-biggest economy is not alone. Deflation – or continuously falling consumer prices - is considered a risk for the whole currency bloc, and particularly countries on its southern rim. Prices have fallen for 20 months in Greece and five in Spain, for example. Both countries are suffering through deep cuts in salaries and state welfare. Yet Italy, a large economy with a huge public debt, is the country causing most worry. Part of the reason deflation is seen differently across southern Europe is cultural. Greeks and Spaniards are historically big spenders. The Spanish economy surged for a decade thanks to a property and consumption bubble that crashed in 2008. Greece grew strongly in the same period, before being brought to its knees in 2009 by its government's clandestine finances. This year, falling prices are helping these economies sell more of their products at home and abroad, fuelling a nascent recovery. Italians, however, are historically big savers. One reason, says Chiara Saraceno, sociology professor at Turin University, is that Italian parents traditionally save for decades in order to buy their children homes when they marry. Flickr user BrookeAnother factor is Italy's famously cash-based economy. Italy has fewer credit cards per person than any other country in the euro zone except Slovakia, according to ECB data. That dampens consumption because people who use credit cards buy more freely, economists say. Even the houses parents buy their children are often paid in one lump-sum rather than with mortgages. Like Japan, Italy has one of the world's oldest and most rapidly aging populations – the kind of people who don't spend. "It is young people who spend more and take risks," says Sergio De Nardis, chief economist of the Bologna-based Nomisma thinktank. In recent years, young people have been the hardest hit by layoffs, he says. Many have left the country to seek work elsewhere. People tend to spend more when they see a bright future. Italian confidence has steadily eroded over the past two decades, hurt by a revolving door of ineffectual governments. In Italy, as in Japan, the lack of economic growth has become chronic.  Underpinning economists' worries is Italy's biggest handicap: a huge national debt equal to 132 percent of national output and still growing. Rising prices make it easier for high-debt countries like Italy to pay the fixed interest rates on their bonds. And debt is usually measured as a proportion of national output, so when output grows, debt shrinks. Because output is measured in money, rising prices –  inflation – boost output even if economic activity is stagnant, as in Italy. But if activity is stagnant and prices don't rise, then the debt-to-output ratio will increase. That could potentially reignite the sort of investor panic that set off the euro zone debt and economic crisis four years ago. Marcello Messori, economics professor at Rome's LUISS university, estimates that without economic growth, prices in Italy would have to rise at least 3.2 percent a year for its debt to fall at the rate the European Union requires. "I see an enormous danger that we will still be in this situation in six months' time, and the longer it lasts the harder it is to get out," says Gustavo Piga, an economics professor at Rome's Tor Vergata University. Sebastiano Salzone, a diminutive 33-year-old from the poor southern region of Calabria, left with his wife five years ago to run the historic Cafe Fiume on Via Salaria, a traditionally busy shopping street near the center of Rome. Salzone was excited by the challenge. But after four years of grinding recession, his business is struggling to survive. "When I took over they warned me demand was weak and advised me not to raise prices. But now, I'm being forced to cut them," he says. A lunch at Cafe Fiume with a pasta course, mineral water, fruit and coffee costs 7 euros and 30 cents. That's the same as it was eight years ago. In September, Salzone cut the price of his paninos by 40 cents to 2 euros 80, and cut the price he charges for soft drinks by 30 cents, to 2 euros. Despite the lower prices, sales have dropped 40 percent, or 500 euros a day, in the last three years. Salzone has reduced staff to 12 from 15 to break even. www.flickr.com and littleny/Shutterstock       Through the mid-1990s Italians saved a large proportion of their income by international standards. Savings became a buffer against the unpredictable economic effects of the political instability that has given Italy nearly one government a year since World War Two. Saving was also encouraged by the high interest rates on government bonds. As growth has slowed and disposable income has fallen, however, people have set aside a smaller and smaller proportion of their salaries. The savings rate now stands at 8 percent, one third of its level in 1991. The average Italian had less spending power in 2013 at the end of each month than they did at the start of the century, according to Italian statistics institute Istat. For hard-pressed individuals, low and falling prices can seem a godsend; but low prices lead to business closures, lower wages and job cuts - a lethal spiral. Since Italy entered recession in 2008 it has lost 15 percent of its manufacturing capacity and more than 80,000 shops and businesses. Those that remain are slashing prices in a battle to survive. Home fixtures maker Iaquone is the kind of small, family-run company that is the backbone of Italy's economy. The nine-person firm has been making doors, windows and blinds for the last 25 years in Frosinone, 90 km (56 miles) south of Rome. But owner Benedetto Iaquone says people are now only changing their windows when they fall apart. To hold onto his 500,000 euros-a-year business, Iaquone says he is cutting prices. He has also changed suppliers, shaving the cost of buying glass and iron by 15 percent and 10 percent, respectively. By doing so, he is helping fuel the chain of deflation from consumers to other companies. "Everyone's profits are lower but at least we manage to keep working," says the 45-year-old businessman. "I always tell myself that if we can get through this period we will come out very strong, but I'm honestly not optimistic about the future." In Italy's largest supermarket chains, up to 40 percent of products are now sold below their recommended retail price, according to sector officials. "There is a constant erosion of our margins," says Vege chief Santambrogio.  Shutterstock What Italy would look like after a decade of Japan-style deflation is grim to imagine. It is already among the world's most sluggish economies, with youth unemployment at 43 percent. As a member of a currency bloc, Rome's options are limited. It can't lower its domestic interest rate, nor devalue its currency. Officially, Italy's budget has to follow European Union rules. Lasting deflation would force more companies out of business, reduce already stagnant wages and raise unemployment further, economists say. The inevitable rise in its public debt could eventually lead to a default and a forced exit from the euro. Opinions differ over how to head off the risk. Some economists say the European Central Bank should follow the example of the U.S. Federal Reserve and inject thousands of billions of euros into the euro zone economy by printing money to buy government bonds. ECB boss Draghi last week threw the door open to printing money, saying "excessively low" euro zone inflation had to be raised quickly by whatever means necessary. Many in southern Europe say the EU should abandon its strict fiscal rules and invest heavily to create jobs. They also say Germany, the region's strongest economy, should do more to push up its own wages and prices. Mediterranean countries need to price their products lower than Germany to make up for the fact that their goods - particularly engineered products such as cars – are less attractive. But with German inflation at a mere 0.5 percent, maintaining a decent price difference with Germany is forcing southern European countries into outright deflation. Italy's policymakers are trying to stop the drop. Prime Minister Matteo Renzi cut income tax in May by up to 80 euros a month for the country's low earners. He is also offering workers the chance to dip early into a special fund that stores part of their wages until they leave their job. But so far the emergency measures have had little effect – partly because Italians don't really believe in them. A survey by the Euromedia agency showed that, despite the 80-euro cut, 63 percent of Italians actually think taxes will rise in the medium-term. Early evidence suggests most Italians are saving the extra money in their paychecks. If so, it will be reminiscent of similar attempts to boost demand in Japan in the late 1990s. The Japanese hoarded the windfalls offered by the government rather than spending them.  Renato Gu, an energetic 31 year-old who came to Italy from China at the age of six, is closing down the small, mid-range women's shoe and accessory shop he has run for the last four years in the heart of Rome because he can no longer cover his costs. Gu says shops like his, catering to middle-class Italians, have been the ones most hit by the crisis, as once-faithful customers look elsewhere for cheaper and cheaper products. He says he has seen "no effect" on spending from the 80 euro tax cut. "I'll consider any line of work," says Gu, who is about to join the country's 3.3. million unemployed. “But I've had enough of trying to run my own business."  (Additional reporting by Giselda Vagnoni and Luca Trogni; Edited by Alessandra Galloni) FREE AppDownload
AP/Koji SasaharaPeople wait to cross a street in front of a Shell filling station with the electric indicator showing a liter of regular gas price, top, at 148 yen, or $1.25, per liter (554 yen, or $4.69 per gallon) in Tokyo Friday, Nov. 28, 2014. A renewed plunge in oil prices is a worrying sign of weakness in the global economy that could shake governments dependent on oil revenues. It is also a panacea as pump prices fall, giving individuals more disposable income and lowering costs for many businesses. Partly because of the shale oil boom in the U.S., the world is awash in oil but demand from major economies is weak so prices are falling. The latest slide was triggered by OPEC's decision Thursday to leave its production target at 30 million barrels a day. Member nations of the cartel are worried they'll lose market share if they lower production. Brent crude, a benchmark for international oils, was at $72.50 a barrel on Friday, down nearly 30 percent in the past three months and at its lowest in four years. U.S. crude oil slid 7.5 percent to near $68 a barrel on Friday and is down 27 percent over three months. OPEC countries and other major oil exporters will feel the biggest negative impact. In Asia, lower oil prices are unambiguously positive for trade balances and government finances as the region is a major oil importer and some nations subsidize the price of fuels. But there are also some possible negatives. At the Esso filling station in Shimbashi, near the glittering Ginza shopping strip in Tokyo, prices remain relatively high. Japan is reliant on foreign oil, but due to import contracts there is a lag in cheaper crude filtering down to consumers. Also, a recent drop in the yen's value will reduce the savings Japan can reap from lower oil prices. In June, regular gasoline cost $1.40 a liter ($5.29 a gallon) at Shimbashi. The price rose to $1.46 a liter ($5.53 a gallon) in July and was $1.44 a liter ($5.44 a gallon) on Friday morning. Prices are expected to fall but this welcome relief for households and businesses will complicate the government's efforts to end Japan's deflation. Beijing has cut prices repeatedly this year in line with declining crude prices. The Cabinet adjusts retail prices when crude changes by at least $1.15 a barrel over a 10-day period. On Friday in Beijing, highest grade gasoline cost $1.20 a liter ($4.54 a gallon). In June, the price in the Chinese capital was $1.35 a liter ($5.11 a gallon). Cheaper fuel would ease financial pressure on manufacturers and small businesses at a time when economic growth has declined steadily over the past two years due to weak demand for exports and government efforts to cool a construction boom. Fuel prices have risen because the government has cut its expensive subsidies, more than offsetting the decline in global oil prices. Gasoline is currently 70 cents a liter ($2.64 a gallon), up from 53 cents a liter ($2 a gallon) in June. The higher prices triggered street protests, with some questioning why fuel prices were rising in Indonesia at a time when they were dropping elsewhere. The latest fall in crude prices may help ease tensions once it flows through to pump prices. New president Joko "Jokowi" Widodo says the money saved on subsidies will be spent on infrastructure, education and social welfare programs. Earlier this month, Malaysia took advantage of lower oil prices to end fuel subsidies. Starting Dec. 1, prices will be set at the end of each month based on a monthly average price. Currently, gasoline is fixed at 68 cents a liter ($2.57 a gallon) and diesel at 65 cents a liter ($2.46 a gallon). While saving on subsidies that were nearly $7 billion last year, economists said the sharp fall in oil prices is negative for Malaysia, an oil-exporting nation. Opposition lawmakers have vowed to hold street protests if the government doesn't reduce the price of gasoline to 58 cents a liter ($2.19 a gallon) next month. Fuel prices have been steadily declining with the latest cut on Tuesday, but Energy Undersecretary Zenaida Monsada said if the price of oil continues to fall, it could mean job cuts for Filipino workers overseas. The Philippines is among the world's top labor exporters, with about a tenth of its 100 million people working abroad, many in oil-producing Middle East countries. They send home billions of dollars that support their families and the country's economy. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Russia's currency is tanking after OPEC declined to cut production to support oil prices on Thursday. In early trading the rouble briefly touched a new record low of 50 roubles to the dollar, before bouncing back. However, it now look to be on its way back across that threshold: BloombergDollar vs the rouble. On Friday Alexei Ulyukayev, the Russian economic development minister, announced that official forecasts of the oil price for 2015 will be reduced following OPEC's decision. Independent Russian news service Interfax quotes Ulyukayev as saying: "The rationale of equilibrium prices is complicated. It is very likely that [the price] will be closer to $80 a barrel next year, but it not possible to know for certain, so we must be prepared for any eventuality." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jean-Paul PelissierEurozone inflation figures just released put the rate at 0.3% in November, down from October's 0.4% and in line with estimates. With the recent impact of oil prices, that means deflation isn't just a possibility for the eurozone: markets are now suggesting it's the most likely outcome in a few months' time. Analysts had forecast that that the rate would come in at 0.3% again, though some suggested it could fall as low as 02% The ECB currently targets 2% inflation, but that target was last reached in the summer of 2012. These numbers increase the chance that the ECB will have to ease policy: that might mean buying sovereign bonds (QE). Economists at Credit Suisse and BNP Paribas believe this announcement could come as early as December, while others think it will come at the beginning of next year.  With oil prices falling, this is likely not the lowest inflation we're going to see: Frederik Ducrozet at Credit Agricole notes that markets are now pricing in mild deflation for the beginning of next year.  Jonathan Loynes at Capital Economics agreed in a note: "We now expect the headline inflation rate to drop below zero at least briefly over the next six months and there is a clear danger of a more prolonged bout of falling prices." Several European countries are already seeing deflation: Spain, Poland, Hungary, Bulgaria and Greece all had negative rates of inflation in October.  When looking at inflation by each sector, it's easy to see how incredibly heavy the pressure on prices from energy has been. Eurostat FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
 The Chinese economy has wasted $6.8 trillion (£4.3 trillion) in investment during the last four years. Six-point-eight trillion dollars. That's according to a report from China's National Development and Reform Commission and the Academy of Macroeconomic Research, written up here in the Financial Times. The report says that amount has been "ineffective investment." For sure, $6.8 trillion is a difficult figure to imagine. That's two years of output for the entire German economy. It's more than four times as much as is invested in S&amp;P 500 index funds.  Even in the enormous Chinese economy, that's practically half of the investment between 2009 and 2013, the period covered by the investigation. This is likely to have pretty grim effects on Chinese economic growth in the years ahead. Investment of whatever variety initially shows us up in GDP figures. For example, the spending on building a bridge. Initially, the bridge construction will boost GDP simply because of the spending needed to finish it. But after that, the economic effect of the bridge depends on a lot: Where is it from? Where does it lead to? If it's a useful investment, it could keep boosting spending by making consumers' journey to a city less arduous, and allowing them to go to the shops more often. If it's a bridge to nowhere, it's not likely to have that effect, and will simply be a waste of resources without any positive growth effect in the future.  China seems to have built the equivalent of $6.8 trillion in bridges to nowhere. According to the FT, the authors are blaming the investment on low interest rates and other forms of government stimulus, suggesting that there's been a sort of malinvestment. The country's deserted ghost cities are probably the ultimate symbol of this wasted investment. And if that's the case, it's not likely to be the last of it: The People's Bank of China just slashed interest rates, and it looks like there's probably more coming. The economy has slowed significantly in recent years: The government now targets a growth rate of 7.5%, well down from the double-digit rates seen before the crisis, and many analysts believe they will struggle to even reach that.  That's not all: The problem is exacerbated by graft and corruption among the country's autocratic elite, which skims off the investment whether it's wasteful or not. If the report's authors are correct about the causes, don't expect to see an improvement in the quality of China's investment any time soon.    FREE AppDownload
Star Wars 7 NewsConcept art for the role of Luke Skywalker in the new Star Wars movie, due out from Disney. A trailer is being released in theatres this weekend. Good morning! Here is what you need to know before your first meeting of the day. 1. The European Parliament voted to break up Google because it is too monopolistic. Don't worry, it will probably never happen. Google has, however, leveraged its dominance to distort non-search markets in the past, so you can see why this vote happened.  2. Inflation numbers for Europe are due out today. We're expecting a new low of less than 1%. The eurozone is flirting with deflation, the nightmare scenario we told you about recently. 3. Japan's bond yields went negative as the BoJ fights deflation. The central bank is purchasing assets in order to ease Japan out of recession. Reuters says: "The two-year JGBs traded at the yield of minus 0.005 percent JP2YTN=JBTC. Negative yield is an unusual, but not uncommon occurrence - record-low interest rates in Europe, for instance, have flipped bond investing on its head with Germany and Switzerland seeing negative yields." Japan's recovery is at risk as inflation came in at a new low. 4. OPEC declined to cut oil production and the price of oil remains in freefall, we told you yesterday. The Saudis are beggaring everyone in their war for share of the US oil market. Non-oil producing countries are jumping for joy, of course, as everything is getting cheaper. 5. Today is Black Friday. You will go shopping. The US phenom is going global. Here are all the UK's best Black Friday deals. Here are Apple's. But the big shocker is Sainsbury's, which is slashing prices on a range of electronics to new eye-popping lows. 6. Outbrain is filing for an IPO. The Israeli adtech startup automates content recommendation on web sites. The company is looking to raise $70-$100 million, the Wall Street Journal reports. 7. Romanians became Britain's biggest new group of immigrants and Prime Minister David Cameron wants to restrict their benefits. Immigrants are streaming into the UK because its economy is still growing, unlike those of Southern Europe. Cameron would prevent new immigrants from receiving benefits for four years after their arrival, the BBC reports. 8. Egypt is expecting a wave of Muslim unrest. Bloomberg reports: "With security forces in the midst of an offensive against Islamist militants in the Sinai peninsula, an ultraconservative group known as the Salafi Front has called for a “Muslim youth uprising” after dawn prayers tomorrow. The government today began deploying units in riot gear and backed by armored vehicles, according to photos and video clips released by the military spokesman and Interior Ministry." 9. The Bank of England will raise interest rates next summer, economists predict. BofE governor Mark Carney has been threatening this for a while. (We'll believe it when we see it — some parts of Europe are still in recession/deflation, dragging on the UK economy.) 10. Uber is driving down the cost of taxi medallions in New York. The evidence is anecdotal but it would appear that the taxi app is having its intended effect of devaluing local taxi monopoly/licensing cartels. Read more in The New York Times. And finally ... A trailer for the new Star Wars film will be shown in some cinemas this weekend. People are going to be lining up to see it. It's Disney's first chapter in the franchise. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei KatoBank of Japan (BOJ) Governor Haruhiko Kuroda points to a placard showing BOJ policy decisions during a news conference at the BOJ headquarters in Tokyo October 31, 2014. A big bundle of data on the Japanese economy came out Friday, with November's inflation figure putting the Bank of Japan (BoJ) further away from its new 2% target.  Stripping out the most volatile parts of the index, like food prices and the effect of April's sales tax hike, inflation fell to 0.9%, as analysts expected. That's the first time it's been below 1% for more than a year, after BoJ governor Haruhiko Kuroda's gargantuan new QE programme.  Without stripping out the effects, Japanese inflation is still at 2.9%, but the effect of the tax hike will drop off sharply in April, a year after it was brought in. Japanese two-year bonds traded with negative yields in the aftermath of the news, a first for the country. That indicates that investors are expecting very little inflation or growth, so they're willing to accept a small real-terms loss on their investment.  A bundle of other economic news was slightly more positive for Japan: overall household spending dropped by 4% in the year to October, less than analysts expected. The unemployment rate also fell to 3.5%, a 16-year low. Industrial production rose 0.2% month-on-month in October, and retail sales are up 1.4% from the same month last year, both of which were better than economists expected. Overall it's bad news for prime minister Shinzo Abe, who called a snap election to justifying stalling the second round of a sales tax increase which is blamed for halting the economy. With oil prices still putting downward pressure on inflation, it also suggests we could see a second round of Kuroda's unexpected acceleration of QE if inflation falls any further. FREE AppDownload
