(Reuters) - Two executives of the Pakistani arm of computer giant Hewlett-Packard Co were arrested by local officials in Karachi on Friday on suspicion of corporate tax evasion, the Wall Street Journal reported. The arrested executives were identified as Shahid Ali Khan, HP Pakistan's country general manager for printing and personal systems and country controller, Salim Rawjani. Hewlett-Packard had no comment when contacted about the Journal report. The arrests followed a raid at a large Pakistani computer seller's offices in Karachi that revealed records allegedly showing equipment as not being properly taxed, the Journal reported. (http://link.reuters.com/vyh38v) Tanveer Malik, director of intelligence and investigation for the Pakistan's Federal Board of Revenue told Journal the raid was carried out after the agency received "overwhelming evidence" of wrongdoing. "We have no comment at this time, other than to say that HP adheres to the highest ethical standards," said an HP spokesperson when contacted by Reuters. Pakistani tax officials told Journal the tax evasion accusations could be expanded on further investigation following the arrests, which was a preliminary step in Pakistani legal proceedings, the Journal reported. (Reporting By Shubhankar Chakravorty in Bangalore and Edwin Chan in San Francisco) FREE AppDownload
In an interview published Thursday in Roll Call, Rep. Jim Moran (D-Va.) lamented that his $174,000 annual salary was not enough to live "decently" in Washington, D.C. "I think the American people should know that the members of Congress are underpaid," Moran said. "I understand that it’s widely felt that they underperform, but the fact is that this is the board of directors for the largest economic entity in the world." The remarks came as the House begins markup on a bill to fund all legislators' salaries. Moran is planning to introduce an amendment that would offer lawmakers a per diem, USA Today reports. Moran stated that some members actually sleep in their offices while in session. But since his district is just across the river in northern Virginia, he doesn't have to maintain two homes (or a small apartment) like other members, as the Washington Post notes. "Our pay has been frozen for three years and we’re planning on freezing it a fourth year," Moran told Roll Call. "A lot of members can’t even afford to live decently in Washington." Of course, Moran isn't the only one upset about his income — which happens to be 97% more than the median household income of the D.C. metro area — as a number of others have voiced similar complaints in recent years. FREE AppDownload
Note from dshort: This commentary has been revised to include today's release of the March Nonfarm Employment data. Official recession calls are the responsibility of the NBER Business Cycle Dating Committee, which is understandably vague about the specific indicators on which they base their decisions. This committee statement is about as close as they get to identifying their method. There is, however, a general belief that there are four big indicators that the committee weighs heavily in their cycle identification process. They are:  Today's release of the March employment data showed an increase of 192K new nonfarm jobs, which was a bit below most economists' expectations (e.g., the Bloomberg survey of economists had a median of 200K), but not enough to prove worrisome. The unemployment rate remained steady at 6.7%. The month-over-month percent change in Nonfarm Employment is 0.14% and 1.66% year-over-year. Today's key employment number is consistent with the slow but consistent growth we've seen over the past few years. On a monthly basis, the YoY percent change has hovered in a narrow range of 1.48% to 1.88% since September of 2011. The chart and table below illustrate the performance of the Big Four and a simple average of the four since the end of the Great Recession. The data points show the cumulative percent change from a zero starting point for June 2009. The latest data point is the first for the 56th month. The overall picture of the US economy had been one of a ploddingly slow recovery from the Great Recession, and the data for December and January months have shown contraction. The general explanation in the popular economic press is that severe winter weather has been responsible for the bad data, and that we shouldn't read the slippage as the beginnings of a business cycle decline. With the data for February now complete and the Nonfarm Employment for March now available, it looks like the contraction in December and January has been reversed.   The next updates of the Big Four will be the mid-month reports on Industrial Production and Real Retail Sales. The charts above don't show us the individual behavior of the Big Four leading up to the 2007 recession. To achieve that goal, I've plotted the same data using a "percent off high" technique. In other words, I show successive new highs as zero and the cumulative percent declines of months that aren't new highs. The advantage of this approach is that it helps us visualize declines more clearly and to compare the depth of declines for each indicator and across time (e.g., the short 2001 recession versus the Great Recession). Here is my own four-pack showing the indicators with this technique. Now let's examine the behavior of these indicators across time. The first chart below graphs the period from 2000 to the present, thereby showing us the behavior of the four indicators before and after the two most recent recessions. Rather than having four separate charts, I've created an overlay to help us evaluate the relative behavior of the indicators at the cycle peaks and troughs. (See my note below on recession boundaries).     The chart above is an excellent starting point for evaluating the relevance of the four indicators in the context of two very different recessions. In both cases, the bounce in Industrial Production matches the NBER trough while Employment and Personal Incomes lagged in their respective reversals. As for the start of these two 21st century recessions, the indicator declines are less uniform in their behavior. We can see, however, that Employment and Personal Income were laggards in the declines. Now let's look at the 1972-1985 period, which included three recessions -- the savage 16-month Oil Embargo recession of 1973-1975 and the double dip of 1980 and 1981-1982 (6-months and 16-months, respectively).     And finally, for sharp-eyed readers who can don't mind squinting at a lot of data, here's a cluttered chart from 1959 to the present. That is the earliest date for which all four indicators are available. The main lesson of this chart is the diverse patterns and volatility across time for these indicators. For example, retail sales and industrial production are far more volatile than employment and income.     History tells us the brief periods of contraction are not uncommon, as we can see in this big picture since 1959, the same chart as the one above, but showing the average of the four rather than the individual indicators.     The chart clearly illustrates the savagery of the last recession. It was much deeper than the closest contender in this timeframe, the 1973-1975 Oil Embargo recession. While we've yet to set new highs, the trend has collectively been upward, although we have that strange anomaly caused by the late 2012 tax-planning strategy that impacted the Personal Income. Here is a close-up of the average since 2000.         Each of the four major indicators discussed in this article are illustrated below in three different data manipulations: The US Industrial Production Index (INDPRO) is the oldest of the four indicators, stretching back to 1919. The log scale of the first chart is particularly useful in showing the correlation between this indicator and early 20th century recessions.             This data series is computed as by taking Personal Income (PI) less Personal Current Transfer Receipts (PCTR) and deflated using the Personal Consumption Expenditure Price Index (PCEPI). I've chained the data to the latest price index value. The "Tax Planning Strategies" annotation refers to shifting income into the current year to avoid a real or expected tax increase.             For a visual sense of the relative size of Personal Income and Transfer Receipts (Social Security, etc.), here is stacked area chart of nominal values. Many people assume that Transfer Receipts (Payments) are a larger source of income than they really are. There are many ways to plot employment. The one referenced by the Federal Reserve researchers as one of the NBER indicators is Total Nonfarm Employees (PAYEMS).             This indicator is a splicing of the discontinued retail sales series (RETAIL, discontinued in April 2001) with the Retail and Food Services Sales (RSAFS) and deflated by the seasonally adjusted Consumer Price Index (CPIAUCSL). I used a splice point of January 1995 because that date was mentioned in the FRED notes. My experiments with other splice techniques (e.g., 1992, 2001 or using an average of the overlapping years) didn't make a meaningful difference in the behavior of the indicator in proximity to recessions. I've chained the data to the latest CPI value.              Note: I represent recessions as the peak month through the month preceding the trough to highlight the recessions in the charts above. For example, the NBER dates the last cycle peak as December 2007, the trough as June 2009 and the duration as 18 months. The "Peak through the Period preceding the Trough" series is the one FRED uses in its monthly charts, as explained in the FRED FAQs illustrated in this Industrial Production chart. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Every quarter, JP Morgan Funds' David Kelly puts out his 'Guide to the Markets'. And in each presentation, Kelly includes a chart on S&amp;P 500 inflection points. It maps the trajectory of the S&amp;P 500 through two booms and two crashes. And in recent quarters, the message was that valuations were more reasonable during the current bull run relative to the last two peaks. But with valuations getting richer, investors can't help but wonder if the next major inflection point is around the corner. JPMorgan Asset Management
Wikimedia CommonsOn Wednesday, we wrote about the revolt on Wall Street against ADP for its perceived inaccuracy in predicting private BLS payrolls. ADP stood by their methodology.  And this morning, ADP appeared to have been vindicated, having predicted 191,000 private payrolls on Wednesday. The actual figure was 192,000.  That difference is almost completely statistically insignificant. "We stand by our numbers and methodology over time," ADP spokesman Dick Wolfe emailed, after the numbers hit. Pantheon Ian Shepherdson and ThomsonReuters' Jeoff Hall were among the most prominent critics of ADP's forecast. And their reaction to today's results was basically: Whatever. Jeoff HallIn an email, Hall said that because we are in a "trending" labor market, "trimming" the mean by discarding the high and the low prints over the past 12 months, summing the rest and dividing by 10, is usually just as accurate as ADP. "While we tipped our cap to ADP this morning, we note that had they (or we) relied on the trimmed 12-month mean through February, they (or we) would have had nearly the same precision (see table)," said Hall. Shepherdson, meanwhile, Tweeted this: @morningmoneyben That would be a no. Even the Astros won 51 games last season, doesn't make them a reliable bet. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Marcelo Del PozoDavid Kostin, Goldman Sachs' chief U.S. equity strategist, says the S&amp;P 500 will climb just 3% this year. However, within the market he sees no shortage of stocks and sectors expected to outperform. In his new U.S. Monthly Chartbook, Kostin provides a list of stocks with the most upside potential today. According to Goldman's analysts, the 40 stocks on this list offer 21% to 41% upside relative to their recent prices. The current list has a mix of energy, tech, and retail firms. FREE AppDownload
HBOCNBC's Catherine Boyle offered a decidedly non-fantastic, nuts and bolts reading of HBO's Game of Thrones Friday morning, giving her own economic analysis of the political gamesmanship and war-faring in George R.R. Martin's wildly popular world of ice and fire. "While Martin's tales of White Walkers, direwolves, and dwarves may seem as far from the mundane world of modern-day finance and politics as possible," she writes, "many have spotted the economic lessons some of the characters should have learned before they embarked on their quest for power." PHOTOS: 'Game of Thrones': 20 Game-Changing Quotes Here are her takeaways: The Iron Bank is GOT's IMF and World Bank in One – Too Big to Fail and Bankrolling Everyone HBOThe Seven Kingdoms of Westeros is a feudal economy, which generates little income of its own, which forces it to turn to the more mercantile nearby Free Cities nearby for loans to fund its campaigns. The Iron Bank, in the city state Braavos, is the biggest and most powerful, operating as GOT's de facto IMF and World Bank in one. Boyle describes the Iron Bank as a classic case of a "too big to fail" lender – "if one king or another doesn't start paying its debts, there could be trouble ahead. This is an example of 'sovereign debt.'" She also points out that Cersei Lannister's hold on the throne truly goes soft only once she stops paying the Iron Bank. And by then, the Bank views the throne as sub-prime and transfers allegiance to her rival Stannis Baratheon. Littlefinger, Master of Coin, Is Also a Master of Quantitative Easing HBO/YouTubeBoyle notes that much like the Federal Reserve, Littlefinger, has been undertaking a pseudo-quantitative easing on the show, "by injecting more gold dragons into the economy (although in a rather less sophisticated way, by clipping coins to create more money)." Meanwhile his duplicity knows no bounds: He weakens the royal family's economic status by drawing heavy loans from the Iron Bank, while raising taxes – and in the backdrop he establishes a booming prostitution business by granting himself loans from the throne, from the very same funds he had it borrow from the Iron Bank. Wolf of Westeros indeed. TV REVIEW: Game of Thrones Season Four Cersei's Financial Mismanagement of the Throne Might Prove to Be Her Undoing HBO/YouTubeAs Boyle writes: "Her family has lent much of its vast wealth to the crown, which is likely to prove about as good an investment as mortgage-backed securities in 2007." She raised taxes to the point where the commoners are restless and meanwhile, winter is coming and her wars have destroyed the kingdom's agricultural economy. "Cersei may want to set up a Bank of Lannisport," writes Boyle, "but it looks like that's come too late." The Iron Bank Is Probably the True King Afterall As Boyle points out, the only enduringly viable industry in Westeros is defense, as ships and and mercenaries are increasingly sought-after to protect against piracy and regional conflict. But it's again the Iron Bank that backs most of these military procurements. "The Iron Bank is always glad to be of service," Tycho Nestoris tells throne contender Stannis after he signs for his debts in blood, in the next book, Winds of Winter. "But ultimately, the players in this game may all, unbeknown to them, be serving the Bank," Boyle observes.   Game of Thrones Season 4 returns to HBO on April 17.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERSThe Nasdaq is got annihilated, falling 2.6% on Friday as the once-loved high-beta momentum stocks continue to get slammed. Amazon (-3.1%), Google (-4.6%), Facebook (-4.6%), and Netflix (-4.9%) were among the stocks deepest in the red. However, the Dow and S&amp;P 500 saw more modest declines, falling 0.9% and 1.2%, respectively. In other words, this was not a wholesale sell-off of the stock market. This has been going on for a few weeks now, in what market strategist Ed Yardeni characterized as an "internal correction" with investors and traders moving from expensively valued stocks to more cheaply valued stocks. "The S&amp;P 500 hit a record intraday high yesterday for the third-straight session, and the 11th time this year," said Rich Barry in the NYSE's MAC Desk Mid-day Update. "However, while high beta/'big momentum' names that trade at higher multiples continue to feel pressure on the downside, value stocks that are lower beta names in sectors like energy, industrial and the utility-space continue to charge higher. So, to summarize, traders/investors are rotating out of the ‘more exciting, high-flyer’ type names, and are moving the sale proceeds into ‘less exciting’ lower P/E stocks." Below is a one-month chart of some of the big tech names. The big, more mature names like Microsoft, Oracle, HP, and even Apple are up during this period. However, Amazon, Facebook, Netflix, Google, and the biotech industry ETF (IBB) are in the red. The Nasdaq composite is down 5% during this period. "All I'll say is that you'd think investors would've learned from the tech bubble and housing bubble, but I guess they were just dying to touch the hot stove once again," said Rich Bernstein in a recent email to Business Insider. "Now they're getting burned." Overall, the market strategists seem to agree that this is good news as it brings more balance to stock market valuations. "This is NOT a bad thing," said Barry. "In fact, it is very healthy for the overall market." Google Finance
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Four Things Investors Need To Consider About The Controversial 'Risk Parity' Investment Strategy (The AllianceBernstein Blog)  After a good run, risk-parity strategies "have been struggling," writes Daniel Loewy on the AllianceBernstein Blog. Risk parity refers to allocating in a way that puts an equal distribution of risk among the "risk contributions" in various asset classes of a portfolio. "This strategic focus on diversification leaves risk parity structurally underweight equities and overweight other return drivers — such as bonds, credits and commodities — compared with a traditional allocation," writes Loewy. "That caused risk parity to lag in 2013, as the equity bull market strengthened and many diversifiers underperformed." Loewy says his research has unearthed four things that investors should remember when considering the role of risk parity in asset allocations. 1. "In the long run, diversification should win. Risk parity can trail a 60/40 strategy over any short period of time, particularly when stocks flourish. But the 60/40 advantage isn’t likely to last. Over individual quarters or years, risk parity outperforms 60/40 about 55% of the time. But over five-year or 10-year periods, risk parity wins more than 70% of the time."2. "A dynamic approach to risk parity can help."3. "We believe the timing for investing in risk parity has improved."4. "Diversifying across manager strategies may improve performance." Why Chinese Stocks Are Worth Considering In The Long Run (BlackRock Blog)  "The MSCI China, for instance, is trading at a price-to-book ratio of 1.4, representing a 25% discount to the 5-year historical average and a 47% discount to U.S. equities," writes BlackRock's Russ Koesterich. In this light, Chinese stocks look attractively priced and a "good long-term value play." Koesterich identifies three other reasons Chinese stocks are worth considering in the long run. 1. "China is making progress on much needed financial system reforms."2. "The Chinese government is unlikely to abandon their growth objectives."3. "The Chinese market is potentially less vulnerable to tighter U.S. monetary policy." Here's How Fattening Profit Margins Contributed To Earnings Growth In Every Quarter Since 1994 (JPMorgan Asset Management)  Revenue, profit margins, and share counts drive earnings per share (EPS) growth. Despite weak sales, profit margins have been beefing up for some time now and have helped companies post record earnings. JP Morgan Asset Management Buying Corporate Bonds Has Got Pretty Hard (Bloomberg)  "Traders trying to purchase investment-grade notes are failing about 46 percent of the time, close to the worst rate in more than four years as measured by activity on MarketAxess Holdings Inc.’s electronic platform," reports Liza Abramowicz at Bloomberg. Typically, traders will offer to buy or sell these bonds in a specific time frame; if they fail to do so in that time, the transaction is said to have failed. This has happened, even though the U.S. corporate debt market has grown 53% since 2008. After 22 Straight Weeks Of Outflows, Money Is Finally Returning To The Emerging Markets (Morgan Stanley)  Emerging markets suffered a rout after the Fed first started talking about tapering its monthly asset-purchase program and eventually tightening monetary policy. This raised concerns that these economies would have a hard time financing their deficits without foreign capital. "After reporting cumulative outflows of US$51.2bn (-6.6% of AUM) in the last 22 consecutive record outflow weeks, Dedicated EM Funds reported inflows of US$2.49bn this week," Morgan Stanley's Jonathan Garner wrote in a note to clients. "This is the first inflow week since October 23, 2013." Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe Door to Hell, a burning natural gas field in Derweze, Turkmenistan.Stocks fell after today's jobs report. The high-beta, momentum stocks saw the worst of it. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Matteo.Mazzoni at www.flickr.comMonths after becoming Olympus's first non-Japanese president and then CEO in 2011, British executive Michael Woodford called for an investigation into allegations that the tech company had covered up losses dating back to the 1990s. Although he was forced out of the company, a $1.7 billion accounting scandal soon unraveled that took down his opponents on the board and caused Olympus' stock price to fall more than 75%. Woodford recounts his experiences in "Exposure: Inside the Olympus Scandal: How I Went from CEO to Whistleblower," now out in paperback, with a movie on the way. His comments on the rise and fall of corporate Japan are excerpted below. From the ruins of war Japan had proved the most amazing industrial success story. And it wasn’t just cars at which they excelled: cameras (Olympus’s first was brought out in 1936, the ‘Semi-Olympus I’), the video recorder, the CD player, the Walkman – all had their origins in Japan. So by the early 1980s, when I joined KeyMed, the Japanese were the commercial and manufacturing envy of the world. They had to do something with their cash surpluses and the response was to go on a spending spree abroad. In the 1980s Japanese firms made overseas direct investments of $280 billion, then equivalent to buying the whole economy of Australia or India. Sony bought Columbia Pictures in 1989, Fujitsu bought the UK’s International Computers Ltd (ICL) in 1990. They picked up Hugo Boss, the Turnberry Hotel and golf course in Scotland, and something similar in California at Pebble Beach. And, in a far smaller deal, Olympus purchased KeyMed from its founder and my mentor, Albert Reddihough. KeyMed proved an extremely successful investment and by 1990, after Olympus had taken full control of the company, it was clear that Britain was the favourite destination for Japanese direct investment. By this stage the UK accounted for 38 per cent of Japan’s $42 billion investment in Europe. Toyota moved into Derbyshire, Honda to Swindon and Nissan to the North-East. Sony made TVs in South Wales, Oki made computer printers in Glasgow, and Olympus became one of the largest employers in Essex. France, incidentally, was the recipient of a mere 7 per cent of Japan’s investment – maybe this had something to do with the views of people like Jacques Calvet, boss of Peugeot-Citroe¨n, who called Britain an offshore aircraft carrier from which the Japanese could launch their attack. Such was the perceived threat of their success that Michael Crichton’s "Rising Sun," published in 1992, shot to the top of the bestseller lists. Its cover blurb stated that the thriller followed a head-long chase through a maze of industrial intrigue – the Japanese versus the Americans. A no-holds-barred conflict in which control of the electronics industry is the fiercely coveted prize and the Japanese saying ‘Business is War’ takes on a terrifying reality. The underlying reality was more subtle. Japan had hidden weaknesses. In the 1970s and 80s Japan appeared to boast a superior form of capitalism and management: one that seemed more egalitarian than the ‘tooth and claw’ variety practised by the Americans and British. Japan’s share of world exports peaked in 1986 and then a malaise set in. Questions were asked about the real nature of the Japanese system and what its weaknesses might be. These are forcefully high-lighted in Michael Porter’s book "Can Japan Compete?", which the celebrated Harvard professor co-wrote with two Japanese collaborators, Hirotaka Takeuchi and Mariko Sakakibara. It is unusually readable for a business textbook. The strengths of Japanese business and its corporate model had for years been drummed into every MBA student: high quality and low cost; a wide array of models and features; lean production; regarding employees as assets; permanent employment; leadership by consensus; strong inter-corporate networks; long-term goals; internal diversification into high-growth industries; and staying close to a supportive government. One by one Porter went through these attributes. He showed how they had been found wanting, as world markets changed, or perhaps, as he suggested, they were not so powerful in the first place. He found companies, including Olympus’s camera business, chasing market share at the expense of profit. He found that leadership by consensus (usually with elderly men at the helm) led to conformity and lack of innovation. He found ‘competitive convergence’, something that occurs when, he said, all the competitors in an industry compete on the same dimensions. The more rivals source from world class suppliers, often the same ones, the more similar they become. As rivals imitate one another’s improvements in quality, cycle time, or supplier partnerships, competition becomes a series of unwinnable races down identical paths. What concerned Porter most was that many of the most successful Japanese companies made consistently low returns on investment. This lack of profitability was widely tolerated because nobody wanted to rock the boat. Unlike their Western counterparts, and in the absence of pressure from shareholders, large Japanese compa- nies often maintained unprofitable divisions indefinitely. Japanese executives euphemistically called these ‘healthy red divisions’. Much of corporate Japan is unable to produce a commercial return on cap- ital. This is the most basic indicator of flaws in the system. None of this was news to Japan’s near neighbours, the ultra-competitive Koreans, who were waiting for their turn in the spotlight. Such flaws became painfully apparent in the 1980s. The country amassed so much cash that the yen grew strong, while the US dollar began its long downward slide. For a while the Japanese had never known it so good. Pumped up by the success of their exports, the asset bubble began to inflate. Then, inevitably, it burst. "Exposure: Inside the Olympus Scandal"The lead the Japanese had held in electronics was especially impressive. Who bought a Korean Samsung rather than a Sony or Panasonic television in the 1990s? But the lost decade took its toll and the dive since has been astonishing. Between 2000 and 2010, Japan’s electronics production fell by 41 per cent and exports tumbled by 27 per cent. Japan’s global market share fell by almost half to 10 per cent by 2009, whereas Korea’s rose to nearly 10 per cent. A month before I took over as president, it was confirmed that China had overtaken Japan to become the world’s second largest economy after the US. It lost the number two spot after nearly five decades as runner-up to the Americans. This was what I had walked into as the new president of Olympus – a company and a country in trouble. Reprinted from EXPOSURE: Inside the Olympus Scandal: How I Went from CEO to Whistleblower by Michael Woodford with permission of Portfolio, a member of Penguin Group (USA) LLC. Copyright (c) Michael Woodford, 2012. FREE AppDownload
Twitter/@datanrd This morning's release of the March jobs report from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics revealed that last month, private-sector employment rose to an all-time high, finally surpassing the pre-recession peak. Shobhana Chandra and Ilan Kolet at Bloomberg News charted the composition of post-crisis payroll growth by industry. The number of people employed in manufacturing and construction jobs are still 12% and 20% below the pre-recession highs, respectively. However, the mining and logging industry now employs 21% more workers than it did before the recession, while the education and health industry employs 13% more people, and the business services industry employs 5% more people. FREE AppDownload
flickr / Doug WertmanEmerging market assets went into a tail spin on chatter of the Federal Reserve tapering its massive bondbuying program and eventually tightening monetary policy. The idea of rising interest rates and a stronger dollar had investors concerned that these economies would face difficulty in the credit markets as much of their recent growth had been financed by foreign bond buyers. All of this manifested in massive outflows from emerging market funds. But things appear to be turning around. "After reporting cumulative outflows of US$51.2bn (-6.6% of AUM) in the last 22 consecutive record outflow weeks, Dedicated EM Funds reported inflows of US$2.49bn this week," noted Morgan Stanley's Jonathan Garner. "This is the first inflow week since October 23, 2013." "ETF type funds reported inflows of US$2.37bn (95% of the total inflows) for the current week, this is the largest inflow reported by ETF funds since September 11, 2013. Non-ETF funds reported marginal inflows of US$0.13bn for the current week. Within EM Funds, all regional funds except EM Asia regional fund reported inflows for the current week. GEMs regional fund reported inflows of US$3.09bn for the current week – the largest weekly inflow since January 16, 2013." Here's the chart from Garner: Morgan Stanley For another look at waning volatility, RBC Capital Market's Jonathan Golub offers this chart of the VIX (aka the "fear gauge") tumbling. RBC Capital Markets FREE AppDownload
REUTERSThe Dow and S&amp;P 500 are down modestly. But the Nasdaq is down a whopping 2.2%. This is reflective of the ongoing "internal correction" out of the once high-flying momentum stocks and into more boring, yet stable large-cap stocks. "All I'll say is that you'd think investors would've learned from the Tech bubble and housing bubble, but I guess they were just dying to touch the hot stove once again," said Rich Bernstein in a recent email to Business Insider. "Now they're getting burned." The once-red-hot biotech sector is down 2.4%. Below is a one-month look at the iShares Biotechnology Index (IBB) and the S&amp;P 500. Google Finance   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Adrees Latif Surging crop prices helped drive up U.S. farmland prices between 2009 and 2012. However the rate of price growth has collapsed. "The rapid run-up in the price of farmland appears to be over," write Paul Ashworth and Paul Dales of Capital Economics. "We suspect that the slowdown in the growth rate of farmland prices last year will develop into an outright decline in prices this year, at least in the corn belt that saw the most dramatic rise in prices." In Iowa for instance we saw farmland prices surge 33% in 2011 and 24% in 2012. But prices climbed just 5% last year. The key concern is whether or not we headed for an outright boom-bust cycle like we saw in 1970s and 80s. "The US should avoid another severe bust in farmland values," write Ashworth and Dales. "For a start, with the Fed focused on the labour market, there is little prospect of any sharp rise in interest rates, which was the principal reason for the slump in prices in the 1980s. The stabilization in crop prices, is also encouraging." While corn and wheat prices have fallen, soybean prices have held up quite well and farmers are earmarking more land for soybeans. "The buoyancy of current soybean prices should prevent any major declines in farmland values in the near-term," they write. "Unfortunately, there are reasons to suspect that crop prices will fall further, with soybean prices dropping the most." This sharp decline in crop prices will exacerbate the decline in farmland prices. With a bumper harvest and easing tensions in Crimea, wheat prices are expected to fall to 500 cents per bushel. Meanwhile, corn and soybean prices are expected to tumble to 350 and 1,000 cents per bushel respectively. And this is unlikely to have wide repercussions on the financial system because farmers have been buying land with their savings, rather than borrowing. And, agricultural loans aren't as big a part of banks' balance sheets with farmland loans amounting to just 0.5% of total bank assets.  Here's a look at the trajectory of farm prices that show the recent slowdown: Capital Economics FREE AppDownload
Much has been made of the multiyear slide in the labor force participation rate since the financial crisis. The drop has been driven in part by the rise in unemployed workers who have become discouraged over dismal job prospects and have thus given up looking for work, leaving the labor force altogether. In the last few months, however, the labor force participation rate has actually stabilized. It bottomed out in December at 62.8%, and by March, it had risen to 63.2%. The rate has risen that much over a three-month span on only four other occasions in the last 22 years. The recent move higher in labor force participation has been accompanied by a sharp drop in the number of discouraged workers not in the labor force, as chart 1 illustrates. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Chart 1. Labor force flows compiled by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics provide some insight into what is happening. Each month, within the official jobs report, the BLS maps the number of workers moving between three states: employed, unemployed, and not in the labor force. Chart 2 shows the number of people who remained outside the labor force in a given month. The number of people outside the labor force who have stayed outside the labor force has been going nowhere but up for years, but in the last few months, this trend has begun to reverse. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Chart 2 (in thousands). Where are those people going? It appears as if some of them are re-entering the labor force as unemployed workers, as chart 3 illustrates. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Chart 3 (in thousands). However, the much bigger story appears to be those re-entering the labor force to take jobs, as chart 4 shows. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Chart 4 (in thousands). According to Sam Coffin, an economist at UBS, there are a few things going on here. One is the expiration of emergency unemployment compensation benefits at the turn of the new year, which may be forcing more people to look for work. Another, much more potent force may finally be playing out in the labor market, though — one that economists have been waiting to see for a long time. Workers may finally be returning to the job market because the economy is improving and confidence in job prospects is coming back. The unemployment rate was unchanged at 6.7% in March, defying Wall Street's consensus forecast for a tick down to 6.6%. However, many economists characterized the rate as staying elevated for "good reasons." In other words, the unemployment rate remained elevated not because job gains weren't solid — at 192,000, the magnitude of the increase in payrolls was on the order of those that have dragged the unemployment rate down significantly over the past year — but because labor force participation rose. "Payrolls have now returned to their pre-winter trend of just under 200,000 per month, more than enough to keep the unemployment rate trending down, unless the labor force begins to expand more rapidly," says Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. "The data for Q1 appear to show exactly that, with the labor force rising by a total of 1.3 million, compared to a decline of 0.5 million in 2013 as a whole, but these data are hugely volatile and a three-month increase — even a big one — is not definitive evidence of anything." Economists and market participants will undoubtedly be watching this trend closely in the coming months, as it may have implications for Federal Reserve monetary policy. "If you are a dove on the FOMC, you can point to the rise in participation, steady unemployment rate and flat growth in earnings as a way to reiterate the idea that rate hikes remain in the distance," says Neil Dutta, head of U.S. economics at Renaissance Macro. There is no denying the massive downward pressure the retirement of the baby boomer generation is putting on the labor force participation rate, but this phenomenon may finally be meeting its match. What happens next, no one can say for sure, but recent data suggest the labor market may be on the verge of seismic shifts in 2014. FREE AppDownload
    The legal action of separation and dissolving your marriage is the least of your worries when it comes to the emotional and potential financial impact of the major life event of divorce. Divorce lawyer Ani Mason says 90% of divorces settle out of court. Mediation and collaborative law are two alternative paths that many couples are choosing over litigation. Not only do they address each issue – co-parenting, spousal support and the psychological effects – separately,  they are often more cost efficient. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Beck DiefenbachRainy weather can ruin your quality work shoes, and soak straight through your canvas sneakers. That’s why every man needs a few options to choose from during a rainstorm — whether they're nice work shoes for a meeting, a quality waterproof pair, or cozy rain boots to keep you dry. Here are eight great pairs of shoes that will stand up to showers while you stay stylish at work or about town. 1. Cordovan Leather Shoes Allen Edmonds(Cordovan Dalton, Allen Edmunds, $725) For anyone who needs to meet an important client or get to an early meeting, one of the best types of dress shoes you can own for the rainy season is anything made with Cordovan leather. Cordovan is equine leather that is naturally weather resistant, thick, and one of the strongest leathers on earth. While these shoes tend to be more expensive, they will always look shined, never crease, and are work-appropriate. 2. Shoes With A Rubber Sole Amazon(Caterpillar Dougald Shoe, Amazon, $145) A rubber sole shoe prevents water from seeping in and will dry quickly, especially if you take time to add extra waterproofing protection before slipping them on. A good option are Caterpillar’s Dougald Shoe, which looks like a quality brogue but has extra traction and a rubber sole on the bottom. 3. Water-Resistant Leather Shoe Zappos(ECCO Atlanta Plain Toe, Zappos, $110) Some companies make less expensive (but still solid) footwear that uses water resistant materials such as synthetic leathers or gor-tex. Though they’re not the same high-brow quality as your fancy leather work shoes, they’re more stylish than a pair of goulashes and will suit practical men in inclement weather. Just be sure to choose a pair that also has decent traction on the soles. 4. Waterproof Leather Boot Nordstrom(Earthkeepers Heritage Rugged Boot, Timberland, $190) A waterproof leather boot like this one has a rugged style while still looking high-end and appropriate for the more casual office. A brand like Timberland will also have better traction and the higher ankle to keep your feet dry, no matter the weather. Plus, there’s an extra layer of waterproofing and rust-proof hardware, which doesn’t hurt either. 5. Slip-On Rain Galoshes Derks Menswear(Classic Galoshes, SWIMS, starting at $99) You can still wear your favorite work shoes even if it's raining (with the right accessories). Choose a pair of galoshes that fit right over your shoe, like the SWIMS brand, and just take them off when you get to work. These are easy to slip on because they're highly stretchable and the inner lining is low friction. SWIMS galoshes are also tear-resistant and will insulate your feet from the cold. 6. Sneaker Rain Shoes Amazon(Tretorn Gunnar, Amazon, $70) If you bike to work or like the look of sneakers, check out a low-cut rain shoe like the Tretorn Gunnar. The cuff goes up to the ankle and they are fully waterproof, but still easy and lightweight to walk around in. These are great for a guy who wants a simple, non-bulky rain boot option. 7. Duck Hunting Shoes Etsy(Bean Boots, L.L.Bean, $99) Another outdoorsy choice is a pair of classic duck hunting shoes. Great on camping or fishing trips (or even a rainy trip to brunch, depending on your style), these are the ultimate in warmth with extra insulation, gore-tex to keep feet dry, and a well-made interior that fits feet like a glove and will last for years in rainy or wintry weather. 8. Rubber Boots/Wellies Tretorn(Skerry Boots, Tretorn, $78) When it’s absolutely pouring outside, sometimes there’s no way around wearing a pair of Wellies. While some men can rock a pair of tall rain boots, most will feel more comfortable with the shorter version that still protects you against puddles, but won't make you look like Paddington Bear. You can always carry your nice work shoes in a waterproof bag and change at work. NOW WATCH: 5 Classic Men's Shoes For Work And Play  FREE AppDownload
The financial crisis was highlighted by a freeze in the short-term credit markets, which had even the most financially sound corporations struggling to meet their short-term obligations (e.g. making payroll). Scarred by the crisis, corporations have been doing everything they can to make their balance sheets more robust and liquid. "Cash levels have surged to new highs and net debt is near trough levels," said RBC Capital's Jonathan Golub. Here are two charts from the  showing the fortress balance sheets built up by the S&amp;P 500's non-financial companies. RBC Capital Markets FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru HanaiChina's economy is slowing suddenly. Recently, the country also experienced its first domestic bond default. And that was quickly followed by the collapse of a property developer. This has some folks talking about an impending 'Bear Stearns moment' for China. There are other's that argue China's "Minsky moment" has arrived. The phenomenon is named after economist Hyman Minsky who articulated that periods of speculation and credit growth inflate assets, only to end in crisis. But Bloomberg BRIEF economist Tom Orlik writes that financial doom scenario concerns are 'overstated' and makes four arguments to support his case. China has set a GDP target of 7.5% and economists believe that there's a growth floor of 7% — the slowest growth that policymakers will tolerate. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesIt's been just over a month since Maria Bartiromo debuted her new show on Fox Business Network. It's off to a very slow start. There were high hopes when Fox Business hired Bartiromo from CNBC after two decades there. She's known for her deep Wall Street Rolodex and ability to book big-name guests. So the thought was that loyal CNBC viewers might follow Bartiromo to FOX. So far, it certainly doesn't seem like they are. Bartiromo's morning show, the "Opening Bell with Maria Bartiromo," which began on February 24, ranked 119th out of 123 cable news shows, according to first quarter ratings data posted by TVNewser. The other Fox Business shows that came in behind her were "Willis Report" and "Money With Melissa Frances," the data shows.  The ratings data shows that Bartiromo's show is reaching a total of 53,000 viewers. However, in the critical viewer demographic that FOX wants to reach — folks ages 25-54 — she's averaging only 7,000 viewers per show.  Bartiromo has one the best time slots of the day because it's around the opening of the market, which is generally the busiest time with breaking news and headlines, so these numbers are particularly disappointing. They're also lower than the viewership FOX was getting in this time slot before Bartiromo debuted. During January and February, when Stuart Varney's FOX Business show "Varney &amp; Co." aired in the same 9-11 a.m. time slot, he was reaching a total of 110,000 households and 23,000 in the coveted demographic. So FOX Business' viewership has actually been cut in half in these hours since Bartiromo took over. Varney's show, meanwhile, has moved back two hours to the 11 a.m.-1 p.m. time period. The data shows that Varney averages 94,000 in total viewers and 16,000 in the demo. That's nearly double Bartiromo's viewers!  Meanwhile, CNBC's "Squawk On The Street" (9-11 a.m.) was doing roughly 200,000 in total viewers and about 45,000 in the key demo during the first quarter, the data shows. CNBC's "Closing Bell," which used to be hosted by Bartiromo and is now hosted by Kelly Evans, had about 36,000 viewers in the demo and roughly 188,000 total households during that period. Across the board for the financial news, the ratings in general are lousy. CNBC's ratings recently hit their lowest level in 20 years. Still, this is certainly not a strong start for Bartiromo, whom FOX is paying a reported $4-5 million a year. Bartiromo is new to the Fox audience. She does have a Sunday show on Fox News Channel that will help expose her to a more general audience and help viewers get to know her better.  We reached out to FOX Business for comment.  We will update this article if we hear back.   Here are the Q1 ratings data: Q1 2014 Cable News Ranker A25-54 by tvnewser  FREE AppDownload
Henry Blodget's iPhoneApple will let you read it. But don't try to buy it.A few months ago, I became a Kindle owner. It was cool! The best part was being able to buy and read books instantly. But then I lost my Kindle. So I downloaded the Kindle app on my iPhone. And that was cool, too. Because then I had the benefits of being a Kindle owner again without having to buy another Kindle. And I also didn't have to lug around two devices or worry about whether my Kindle was charged or where it was, etc. But then it came time to buy a new Kindle book. So I fired up my Kindle app on the iPhone and tried to buy, "The Everything Store." My Kindle app produced a beautiful image of the cover and an intro excerpt of a few dozen pages. I read them happily, in bed, and, surprisingly, did not go instantly to sleep (it's a good story!). But then the free excerpt ended. I was hooked by that point. So I decided to buy the book. And for 5 to 10 minutes I fiddled with my Kindle app, trying to figure out how to buy the book. And I became increasingly frustrated: Amazon, a company that is normally so excellent at making it as easy as possible to find and buy stuff, had been unable to build an iPhone app simple enough for me to figure out? I kept trying. But the only additional thing I could do was add the book to my "Wish List." Well, that wasn't helpful. Eventually, I concluded that my Kindle App just did not allow me to buy stuff. This was mystifying, but I assumed it had something to do with Apple's draconian "pay us a huge cut or else" app commerce policies—and that assumption made me super-annoyed with Apple. I've been an Amazon customer a lot longer than I've been an Apple iPhone customer, and here Apple was basically making it impossible for me to buy stuff from a store I'm already a customer of. So I fired up the Amazon app on my iPhone — an app through which I had already bought a lot of stuff on my iPhone, including sneakers and a ping-pong table. And I couldn't buy "The Everything Store" there, either! Kindle AppWhat you see when you try to buy a book on your Kindle app.Exasperated, I asked Twitter what was going on. Many folks immediately confirmed that, yes, it was Apple's greedy "30% or else" policy that was preventing me from being able to buy the book in my apps — because Apple is in the ebook business and Apple doesn't want me to buy ebooks from anyone other than Apple unless Apple gets a huge cut. And many of these iPhone owners expressed the same annoyance and frustration about this policy that I felt. Happily, a couple of folks on Twitter also explained how I could get around this absurd situation: By firing up the iPhone's web browser and using that to buy my Kindle book. I haven't gotten around to doing that yet, but I'm certainly glad that's possible. But what a klugy solution! And how annoying that a company that prides itself on making the best and easiest-to-use products in the market forces its customers to go through the hassle of figuring out how to hack their iPhones to be able to buy stuff from companies they are already customers of! (And, no, I'm not mad at Amazon for not paying Apple its egregious 30% tax. That level of commission is outrageous. Unlike Apple, Amazon doesn't make money hand over fist. Instead, it shares the profit it could be making with me, its customer, through lower prices, and I am continuously grateful for that.) I understand that Apple wants to get even richer ($160 billion of cash and a ~30% profit margin isn't enough, apparently). And I'm an Apple shareholder, so I guess I'm glad the company thinks it's looking out for me.*  But does Apple understand that its greedy "30% cut" policy is making my iPhone worse? Is that really what Apple aspires to — to force its customers to use only services that Apple makes even when the customers don't want to use those services? I certainly hope that's not what Apple aspires to. I love my iPhone. I have been waiting two years for Apple to finally make an iPhone with a big screen, and I'm very excited that this year it likely will finally do that. And I will buy the iPhone with the big screen. But this anti-customer Apple policy that is making my iPhone less useful and worse is really annoying to me. Kindle AppThere's a good book in my Kindle library. Too bad Apple won't let me buy another one.Another two years from now, when Android is that much more improved, and smartphone hardware has become that much more commoditized, and Google's web services (which are better than Apple's) are that much better integrated into Android-based smartphones, and Amazon, Netflix, WhatsApp, and the handful of other apps that I use a lot work much better on Android than they do on the iPhone, I'm going to think seriously about switching. I hate that Apple is making my iPhone less useful to make itself richer. And I hate that a company I otherwise deeply admire on so many levels, would pursue a money-driven policy that is so clearly anti-customer. SEE ALSO: Here Comes The Big iPhone! * This is a different story, but I actually don't think Apple's profit obsession is good for shareholders like me. By keeping its prices so high, I think Apple is being shortsighted and trading off long-term value for short-term profit. I actually wish Apple would behave more like Amazon, and focus on the long-term. Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
1. Electronic trading is part of HFT, but not all electronic trading is high-frequency trading. Trading equities and other financial instruments has been around for a long time. It is Electronic Trading that has led to far smaller spreads and lower actual trading costs from your broker. Very often HFT companies take credit for reducing spreads. They did not. Electronic trading did. We all trade electronically now. It’s no big deal. 2. Speed is not a problem. People like to look at the speed of trading as the problem. It is not. We have had a need for speed since the first stock quotes were communicated cross country via telegraph. The search for speed has been never ending. While I don't think co-location and sub-second trading adds value to the market, it does NOT create problems for the market. 3. There has always been a delta in speed of trading. From the days of the aforementioned telegraph to sub-millisecond trading, not everyone has traded at the same speed. You may trade stocks on a 100mbs-broadband connection that is faster than your neighbor's dial-up connection. That delta in speed gives you faster information to news, information, research, getting quotes, and getting your trades to your broker faster. The same applies to brokers, banks, and HFT. They compete to get the fastest possible speed. Again, the speed is not a problem. 4. So what has changed? What is the problem? What has changed is this. In the past, people used their speed advantages to trade their own portfolios. They knew they had an advantage with faster information or placing of trades and they used it to buy and own stocks. If only for hours. That is acceptable. The market is very Darwinian. If you were able to figure out how to leverage the speed to buy and sell stocks that you took ownership of, more power to you. If you day-traded  in 1999 because you could see movement in stocks faster than the guy on dial-up and you made money, more power to you. What changed is that the exchanges both delivered information faster to those who paid for the right AND ALSO gave them the ability via order types where the faster traders were guaranteed the right to jump in front of all those who were slower (traders, feel free to challenge me on this). Not only that: They were able to use algorithms to see activity and/or directly see quotes from all those who were even milliseconds slower. With these changes the fastest players were now able to make money simply because they were the fastest traders. They didn’t care what they traded. They realized they could make money on what is called latency arbitrage. You make money by being the fastest and taking advantage of slower traders. It didn’t matter what exchanges the trades were on, or if they were across exchanges. If they were faster and were able to see or anticipate the slower trades they could profit from it. 5. This is where the problems start. If you have the fastest access to information and the exchanges have given you incentives to jump in front of those users and make trades by paying you for any volume you create (maker/taker), then you can use that combination to make trades that you are pretty much GUARANTEED TO MAKE A PROFIT on. So basically, the fastest players, who have spent billions of dollars in aggregate to get the fastest possible access are using that speed to jump to the front of the trading line. They get to see, either directly or algorithmically the trades that are coming in to the market. When I say algorithmically, it means that firms are using their speed and their brainpower to take as many data points as they can use to predict what trades will happen next. This isn’t easy to do. It is very hard. It takes very smart people. If you create winning algorithms that can anticipate/predict what will happen in the next milliseconds in markets/equities, you will make millions of dollars a year. (Note: Not all algorithms are bad. Algorithms are just functions. What matters is what their intent is and how they are used.) These algorithms take any number of datapoints to direct where and what to buy and sell and they do it as quickly as they can. Speed of processing is also an issue. To the point that there are specialty CPUs being used to process instruction sets. In simple terms, as fast as we possibly can, if we think this is going to happen, then do that. The output of the algorithms, the This Then That creates the trade (again, this is a simplification — I'm open to better examples), which creates a profit of  some relatively small amount. When you do this millions of times a day, that totals up to real money. IMHO, this is the definition of high-frequency trading. Taking advantage of an advantage in speed and algorithmic processing to jump in front of trades from slower market participants to create small, guaranteed wins millions of times a day. A high frequency of trades is required to make money. Therein lies the problem. This is where the game is rigged. If you know that by getting to the front of the line you are able to see or anticipate some material number of the trades that are about to happen, you are GUARANTEED to make a profit. What is the definition of a rigged market? When you are guaranteed to make a profit. In casino terms, the trader who owns the front of the line is the house. The house always wins. So when Michael Lewis and others talk about the stock market being rigged, this is what they are talking about. You can’t say the ENTIRE stock market is rigged, but you can say that for those equities/indexes where HFT plays, the game is rigged so that the fastest, smart players are guaranteed to make money. 6. Is this bad for individual investors? If you buy and sell stocks, why should you care if someone takes advantage of their investment in speed to make a few pennies from you?  You decide, but here is what you need to know: a. Billions of dollars have been spent to get to the front of the line. All of those traders who invested in speed and expensive algorithm writers need to get a return on their investment. They do so by jumping in front of your trade and scalping just a little bit. What would happen if they weren’t there? There is a good chance that whatever profit they made by jumping in front of your trade would go to you or your broker/banker. b. If you trade in small stocks, this doesn’t affect small stock trades. HFT doesn’t deal with low-volume stocks. By definition they need to do a high frequency of trades. If the stocks you buy or sell don’t have volume (I don't know what the minimum amount of volume is), then they aren’t messing with your stocks c. Is this a problem of ethics to you and other investors? If you believe that investors will turn away from the market because they feel that it is ethically wrong for any part of the market to offer a select few participants a guaranteed way to make money, then it could create significant outflows of investors' cash, which could affect your net worth. IMHO, this is why Schwab and other brokers that deal with retail investors are concerned. They could use customers. 7. Are there systemic risks that result from all of this? The simple answer is that I personally believe that without question the answer is YES. Why? If you know that a game is rigged AND that it is LEGAL to participate in this rigged game, would you do everything possible to participate if you could? Of course you would. But this isn’t a new phenomenon. The battle to capture all of this guaranteed money has been going on for several years. And what has happened is very Darwinian. The smarter players have risen to the top. They are capturing much of the loot. It truly is an arms race. More speed gives you more slots at the front of the lines. So more money is being spent on speed. Money is also being spent on algorithms. You need the best and brightest in order to write algorithms that make you money. You also need to know how to influence markets in order to give your algorithms the best chance to succeed. There is a problem in the markets known as quote stuffing. This is where HFT create quotes that are supposed to trick other algorithms, traders, investors into believing their is a true order available to be hit. In reality those are not real orders. They are decoys. Rather than letting anyone hit the order, because they are faster than everyone else, they can see your intent to hit the order or your reaction either directly or algorithmically to the quote and take action. And not only that, it creates such a huge volume of information flow that it makes it more expensive for everyone else to process that information, which in turn slows them down and puts them further at a disadvantage. IMHO, this isn’t fair. It isn’t a real intent. At its heart it is a FRAUD ON THE MARKET. There was never an intent to execute a trade. It is there merely to deceive. But order stuffing is not the only problem. Everyone in the HFT business wants to get to the front of the line. They want that guaranteed money. In order to get there, HFT not only uses speed but they also use algorithms and other tools (feel free to provide more info here, HFT folks) to try to influence other algorithms. It takes a certain amount of arrogance to be good at HFT. If you think you can out-think other HFT firms you are going to try to trick them into taking actions that cause their algorithms to not trade or to make bad trades. It’s analogous to great poker players versus the rest of us. What we don’t know is just how far afield HFT firms and their algorithms will go to get to the front of the line. There is a moral hazard involved. Will they take risks knowing that if they fail they may lose their money but the results could also have systemic implications? We saw what happened with the Flash Crash. Is there any way we can prevent the same thing from happening again? I don’t think so. Is it possible that something far worse could happen? I have no idea. And neither does anyone else. It is this lack of ability to quantify risks that creates a huge cost for all of us. Warren Buffet called derivatives weapons of mass destruction because he had and has no idea what the potential negative effect of a bad actor could be. The same problem applies to HFT. How do we pay for that risk? And when? When you have HFT algorithms fighting to get to the front of the line to get that guaranteed money, who knows to what extent they will take risks and what the effect will be not only on our U.S. equities markets, but also currencies, foreign markets, and ...  ??? What about the HFT players outside U.S. markets? All markets are correlated at some level. Problems outside the U.S. could create huge problems for us here. IMHO, there are real systemic issues at play. 8. So why are some of the big banks and funds not screaming bloody murder?  To use a blackjack analogy, it's because they know how to count cards. They have the resources to figure out how to match the fastest HFT firms in their trading speeds. They can afford to buy the speed or they can partner with those that can. They also have the brainpower to figure out generically how the algorithms work and where they are scalping their profits. By knowing this they can avoid it. And because they have the brainpower to figure this out, they can actually use HFT to their advantage from time to time. Where they can see HFT at work, they can feed them trades, which provide some real liquidity as opposed to volume. The next point, of course, is that if the big guys can do it, and the little guys can let the big guys manage their money, shouldn’t we all just shut up and work with them? Of course not. We shouldn’t have to invest with only the biggest firms to avoid some of the risks of HFT. We should be able to make our decisions as investors to work with those that give us the best support in making investments. Not those who have the best solution to outsmarting HFT. But more importantly, even the biggest and smartest of traders, those who can see and anticipate the HFT firms actions can’t account for the actions of bad actors. They can’t keep up with the arms race to get to the front of the line. It's not their core competency. It is a problem for them, but they also know that by being able to deal with it better than their peers it gives them a selling advantage. “We can deal with HFT no problem.” So they aren’t screaming bloody murder. 9. So, my conclusion?  IMHO, it’s not worth the risk. I know why there is HFT. I just don’t see why we let it continue. It adds no value. But if it does continue, then we should require that all ALGORITHMIC players to register their algorithms. While I’m not a fan of the SEC, they do have smart players at their market structure group — the value of going to SEC Speaks :) While having copies of the algorithms locked up at the SEC won't prevent a market collapse/meltdown, at least we can reverse-engineer it if it happens. I know this sounds stupid on its face. Reverse-engineer a collapse? But that may be a better solution than expecting the SEC to figure out how to regulate and preempt a market crash. 10. FINAL FINAL THOUGHTS. I wrote this in about two hours. Not because I thought it would be definitive or correct. I expect to get ABSOLUTELY CRUSHED on many points here. But there is so little knowledge and understanding of what is going on with HFT that I believed that someone needed to start the conversation.    Read more posts on Blog Maverick » FREE AppDownload
Fod ordering company GrubHub jumped 54% in its debut as a public company. It priced at $26, and opened at $40.  The company raised $192.5 million, at a $2 billion valuation, according to Reuters.  In its IPO filing, GrubHub said it did $137.1 million in sales in 2013, a 67% increase from 2012. Net income was $6.7 million, but that was down from $7.9 million in 2012.  GrubHub is the parent company of Seamless. It also owns Menu Pages and All Menus.  In its filing, GrubHub described what it does by saying, "We provide restaurants with more orders, help them serve diners better and enable them to improve the efficiency of their takeout business. For diners, we make takeout accessible, simple and enjoyable, enabling them to discover new restaurants and accurately and easily place their orders anytime and from anywhere." If that's too boring an explanation, here's how we would put it: It makes ordering food through the Internet easy. Most restaurants aren't tech savvy, so GrubHub steps in and makes it easy to look at menus and order food.  GrubHub is the latest Internet-oriented IPO. After years of a weak IPO market, a lot of companies are going public. We'll keep an eye on the stock today and update this post.  FREE AppDownload
The February jobs report is out, and it just barely missed expectations. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that 192,000 workers were added to nonfarm payrolls in February, below Wall Street's estimate of 200,000. The unemployment rate was unchanged at 6.7%. All told, markets appear to be pleased with the report. Bill McBride of Calculated Risk runs a chart every month that puts the jobs recovery into better perspective.  The [graph] shows the job losses from the start of the employment recession, in percentage terms, compared to previous post WWII recessions. The dotted line is ex-Census hiring. This shows the depth of the recent employment recession - worse than any other post-war recession - and the relatively slow recovery due to the lingering effects of the housing bust and financial crisis.  We're going to have to retire it soon — we're now just 0.3% below the pre-recession peak, McBride notes. But it still shows how scary the financial crisis was and how slow the recovery has been. Calculated Risk
REUTERSThe U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics released the much-awaited March jobs report this morning, and markets are moving. Job growth failed to stage the snap back that much of Wall Street expected after an unseasonally harsh winter was said to weigh on the numbers over the past several months. The reactions are starting to pour in. Here's what the Street is saying. NEIL DUTTA, HEAD OF U.S. ECONOMICS AT RENAISSANCE MACRO: "Conditions in the labor market continue to improve but remain far from good. The March employment report has something for everyone except economic growth bears. If you are a bull, aggregate hours continue to rise, supporting the idea that the weakness in Q1 was weather related and likely to be short-lived. If you are a dove on the FOMC, you can point to the rise in participation, steady unemployment rate and flat growth in earnings as a way to reiterate the idea that rate hikes remain in the distance. If you are a hawk on the FOMC, there is nothing in this report to suggest that tapering should not continue." MICHELLE GIRARD, CHIEF ECONOMIST AT RBS: "A very straightforward report. Nonfarm payrolls rose by 192,000, both overall and in the private sector. Both readings were in line with their 12-month moving averages (+187,000 and +189,000, respectively). Weather was still cold in March, but not as bad as February. So no weather rebound, but also no real weather drag and end up with a trend gain. The conclusion then is that employment conditions are pretty much the same as they have been last few years. This report should not move the dial in either direction for either the market or the Fed. Hours worked rebounded — this was where weather impact has been most evident. The average workweek rose to 34.5 hours, back to the level it was in November (from January-November 2013, the average workweek held between 34.4 hours and 34.5 hours). Hourly earnings were flat following a 0.4% jump last month (which we suspected was distorted by the weather, as hours worked were down due to weather but for many workers, pay was unchanged, so average hourly earnings go up). On a year-over-year basis, earnings growth slipped from 2.2% to 2.1%. While much was made of the February uptick, doesn't appear to be much going on in terms of wage growth." ALAN RUSKIN, GLOBAL HEAD OF G10 FX STRATEGY AT DEUTSCHE BANK: "Mixed payrolls data work with most of the FOMC thoughts that the labor market will give them plenty of time before needing to respond to the recovery. In terms of impact, this is not a great number for rates, FX and equities vol; it will take some of the steam out of my favored short eurodollar rate trades (though still a believer multi-month); will be helpful for FX carry, fitting in ‘sweet spot’ for EM and commodity currencies. Suspect carry shorts will still be spread between JPY, EUR and USD in that favored order. On the positive growth side: (1) Large gains in hours worked, so the broadest measure of activity, aggregate hours worked, is up a very healthy 0.7% on the month as payback to the soft -0.1% decline in the prior month. (2) Payrolls in March were largely as expected, with upward revisions to February (now a decent 197,000) and Jan making payrolls slightly better than expected. Weather effect in prior months, notably February, is now much more muted. (3) Manufacturing hours worked were very strong, offsetting a subdued -1,000 change in manufacturing employment. Construction employment still solid despite mixed housing data. (4) The rise in the unemployment rate came in the face of a large 476,000 household employment gain. Negative side: (1) Uptick in the unemployment rate, even for 'good reasons' (rise in participation rate) still buys the Fed time and works with a view that participation will rise as the economy improves. (2) Broad U-6 rate up 0.1% to 12.7% is disappointing. (3) Flat hourly earnings (again distorted by large hours) taken in tandem with 0.4% prior gain works against the idea of much additional wage pressures." KIT JUCKES, GLOBAL STRATEGIST AT SOCIETE GENERALE: "I've been told I am not thumping the table much on this trip to the U.S., and have happily conceded that I am waiting for something to change, rather than sure when it will. The U.S. is generating jobs at a pace consistent with steady but unspectacular growth, the Fed has outlined its monetary policy normalisation framework, and investors have accepted it and concluded that if rates are heading to 3.5-4%, there is little to fear. The big threat to the vol-selling, carry-seeking consensus is a pickup in wage growth and hence in inflation expectations. Well, we can put that to bed for another month as wage growth dipped in an otherwise unexciting NFP report. 2.2% year over year for non-supervisory workers, 2.1% overall. Meh!!" CHRIS RUPKEY, CHIEF FINANCIAL ECONOMIST AT BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ: "This is an important day. Keep the focus on what is right in the world. Today private payroll jobs are at all-time record highs. There are more people working today in private industry than any time in history. The labor market has returned to square one. The old peak in employment was 115 million 977 thousand jobs in January 2008 as the recession began. Today a new record at 116 million 87 thousand jobs. 110 thousand more are working today thanks to the all the stimulus policies and programs from Washington. Don’t stop now keep going. What else is on the Fed’s dashboard? The unemployment rate was 6.7% again today for March, but that is not on the dashboard anymore. First are those working part-time who want full time work. Went the wrong way today rising from 7.186 to 7.411 million. 225 thousand more. The biggest jump was from those who say there are slack work or business conditions out there. Hopefully these have not all done jail time. But hang on because private payroll employment has never been higher in the nation’s history. What else on dashboard. Wages. Tighter labor markets mean higher wages. Nope. Average hourly earnings unchanged in March up 2.1% from the last year. Not good enough, although at least it is at the Fed’s 2% inflation target." MILLAN MULRAINE, DEPUTY HEAD OF U.S. RESEARCH AND STRATEGY AT TD SECURITIES: "Despite the weak headline performance this was a solid labor market report, with a combined 229,000 jobs being added and rising labor market participation, the underlying tone of this report was quite encouraging. A 200,000 print on the headline number is likely to be seen as a critical hurdle for the labor market; however, given broad-based strength in this report, there is every indication that we may be well on our way to achieving this outcome very soon. The main takeaway from this report is that the labor market is continuing to bounce out of the weather-induced slump of earlier this year, and while the pace of rebound remains slower than we expected, we take encouragement from the strong showing in almost every other aspect of this report." HARM BANDHOLZ, CHIEF U.S. ECONOMIST AT UNICREDIT: "Another solid employment report. While the payroll gain for March was slightly lower than the consensus and our own expectations, one has to keep in mind that the numbers for previous two months were revised up by no less than 37,000. Better employment numbers for January and February (now reported 197,000), in turn, have lowered the potential for a rebound in March, which has been the primary reason for our above-consensus forecast. The average payroll gain over the past three months rose back to 178,000, in line with our 180,000 projection. In another sign that the labor market has overcome the impact from the inclement weather, average weekly hours rose back to 34.5, the highest since November. The flip side is that average hourly earnings were only flat in March, after rising a strong 0.4% in February; we had argued before that this sharp increase in February was mostly the result of fewer hours works (the denominator), and thus was likely to be reversed. The unemployment rate stayed at an unchanged 6.7%, as a whopping 476,000 increase in household employment (taken from another survey than nonfarm payrolls) almost offset a 503,000 rise in the labor force. The participation rate rose to 63.2%, the highest since September 2013. A rise in the participation rate is certainly welcome news as it suggests that some frustrated unemployed, who had stopped looking for a job, are coming back to the labor market. If this uptick in the participation rate proves to be sustainable, this would indicate growing confidence in overall job prospects that should sooner or later also be reflected in a pick-up in hiring activity." IAN SHEPHERDSON, CHIEF ECONOMIST AT PANTHEON MACRO: "The payroll details show a slightly smaller increase in core non-seasonally adjusted payrolls than we expected and a surprise dip in the non-seasonally adjusted birth/death contribution (75,000 compared to 92,000 in March 2013) but the seasonal factor was little changed from last year, adding a modest 23,000 compared to March 2013. Elsewhere, note the unchanged hourly earnings offset the weather-distorted 0.4% Feb gain; still no real sign of an acceleration in the trend, despite other evidence of labor market tightening. Hours worked rebounded strongly, with the 0.7% gain more than making up for the 0.1% February dip, and the workweek was strong too. Overall, then, a solid return to form. Hawks will fret over the sustained payroll strength while doves will point to the (very) tentative signs of rising participation. The jury is out, but tapering continues." SCOTT BUCHTA, HEAD OF FIXED INCOME STRATEGY AT BREAN CAPITAL: "Wage growth remains stagnant and underemployment is still elevated, which had led to slack in the labor markets. 'Slack' may well become the new buzzword for the second quarter as the markets look to evaluate structural changes in the labor markets and evaluate when the FOMC may first begin to raise rates. We remain in the 'lower for longer' camp as far as rates go, although we now believe that the Fed will try to wind down QE3 by the end of this year." CHRIS LOW, CHIEF ECONOMIST AT FTN FINANCIAL: "As in the ISM report, there was a springtime bounce in payrolls, but it wasn’t as big as expected. Treasury yields gyrated wildly in the immediate aftermath of the report, likely reflecting bulls who see weakness under the surface of winter snow and ice and bears who figure it may take a couple of months to get the economic engine turning over at the robust pace promised by Fed and Street forecasts. In the meantime, the 12-month average was 187,000, under 200,000 since November, and payrolls failed to top 200,000 for the fourth consecutive month. Year-to-date hiring is consistent with the past few years’ experience, but is not the kind of job growth you’d expect in a 3% economy." ANDREW WILKINSON, CHIEF MARKET ANALYST AT INTERACTIVE BROKERS: "Most sectors added a decent slew of jobs in March in a sign that employers are warming to hiring as they feel the subtleties of strengthening final demand. Retailers, for example, by adding 21,000 positions all but wiped out total losses sustained over two prior readings. Professional hiring rose by a solid 57,000, down from a February gain of 81,000, which was the strongest in exactly one year. That number included the addition of 29,000 temporary workers typically read as a precursor to sustained hiring. Construction companies added 19,000 workers while mining and logging industries added 7,000 positions. Food services companies added 30,000 positions lifting the annual change to 323,000 positions. Leisure and hospitality added 29,000 positions. Net government hiring was flat during the month." ADRIAN MILLER, DIRECTOR OF FIXED INCOME STRATEGY AT GMP SECURITIES: "So what does the NFP report tell us? Clearly the strong upside revision in the February report more than offset the slight miss in the March report. But we did not get the catch-up move we expected from depressed job growth in December and January, possibly due in part to the January and February revisions. So if we incorporate the March report and previous revisions we would characterize the report in aggregate as being largely in line even as the household survey recorded somewhat better results than the establishment survey. From the market’s standpoint with the labor market in better shape than initially expected as evidenced by the revisions equity prices are moving higher. And yet, the labor market is not displaying signs of being poised to record robust growth, which means a steady as she goes approach for the Fed as the probability of a first half 2015 rate hike diminished which plays well for the bond market that is seeing yields fall post report. Net net, the economy is improving and has largely moved past the weather’s negative impact and the labor market is gaining momentum albeit modestly, so all indications suggest we should be able to hit our full year GDP growth rate of +3.0% as the unemployment rate slides near 6% by year end." More to come as we get it...  FREE AppDownload
Total nonfarm private payroll employment climbed to 116,067,000, the BLS said this morning. The means private employment is now above the pre-recession peak by 110,000, Calculated Risk's Bill McBride notes, and at a new all-time high. Overall employment is now just 0.3% below the pre-recession peak. Here's the chart via FRED: FRED FREE AppDownload
Our transportation reporter, Alex Davies, recently took the 2014 Ferrari F12berlinetta for a test-drive in the Connecticut countryside. With a base price of $315,000 and a max speed of 215 mph, it's the most expensive and powerful Ferrari on the market.Produced by Graham Flanagan. FOLLOW BI VIDEO: on Facebook.
Data on average hourly earnings just released by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics in the March jobs report was disappointing. Wage growth has taken center stage in recent months as it has advanced to post-crisis highs, raising expectations of a faster-than-expected economic recovery and a tightening labor market that could put the Fed behind the curve with regard to tightening monetary policy. As chart 1 illustrates, average hourly earnings fell 0.1% from the previous month. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Chart 1. As chart 2 shows, the monthly change dragged the year-over-year growth rate of average hourly earnings down to 2.2% from February's 2.5% reading. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Chart 3. This is likely due to the rebound in average weekly hours worked to 34.5 in March, displayed in chart 3, after a weather-induced drop in recent months. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Chart 2. "Solid employment growth and upward revisions along with a rebound in the workweek are good news," says Neil Dutta, head of U.S. economics at Renaissance Macro. "The flat growth in hourly earnings and the lack of downward movement in the unemployment rate reminds investors that the Fed has plenty of breathing room, for now." FREE AppDownload
CNBC screenshotThis week, BATS chief Bill O'Brien and IEX head Brad Katsuyama got into a verbal brawl over BATS' alleged facilitating of front-running on its exchange. That's a process by which high-frequency traders can execute orders fractions of a second faster than other market players.   They key moment came when Katsuyama, who figures prominently in Michael Lewis' new book, "Flash Boys," challenged O'Brien to say where BATS gets its market data. “What do you use to price trades in your matching engine on Direct Edge?” Mr. Katsuyama asked Mr. O’Brien. “We use the direct feeds,” Mr. O’Brien said. That wasn't true. The Wall Street Journal's Scott Patterson reported that, under pressure from the New York attorney general's office, BATS issued a correction to O'Brien's statement yesterday, saying that two of its exchanges currently use NASDAQ's Securities Information Processor, aka the SIP, which is slower than direct feeds from the major exchanges. BATS said it plans to transition from the SIP in the coming months. Patterson explains the significance of this admission: The distinction matters because high-speed traders can use powerful computers and superfast links between markets to outpace traders and trading venues that rely on slower market data, such as the SIP... High-speed traders typically use direct feeds to discern the current state of the market, since the SIP is too slow for them to execute their split-second strategies. The direct feeds also enable them to calculate which direction stocks are going before that information is reflected in SIP feeds, traders say. “On their faster market data feeds, [high-speed traders] can see a price movement before it hits the slower consolidated feed, and sweep markets that they know use the slower feed,” said Dave Lauer, a former high-speed trader and president of KOR Group, a market-structure lobbying group. In essence, high-frequency traders who have direct feeds can go to BATS to outpace other outlets that rely on the SIP feed. Click here to read the full story on WSJ.com » FREE AppDownload
The jobs report is out. It's mediocre. The unemployment rate stayed at 6.7% and average hourly earnings actually fell. The 192K new jobs that were reported were slightly below expectations. But markets are up a tad, perhaps on the news that there's no immediate pressure on the Fed to tighten. Here's the full report &gt; FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fred ProuserPeople search for jobs on computers at the Verdugo Jobs Center, a partnership with the California Employment Development Department, in Glendale, California.The March jobs report is out. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics estimates 192,000 workers were hired to nonfarm payrolls in March, below Wall Street's consensus forecast of 200,000. The entire gain was comprised of private-sector hires. February's number was revised up to 197,000 from 175,000. The unemployment rate was unchanged at 6.7%, defying the consensus estimate of a tick down to 6.6%. The labor force participation rate rose to 63.2% from 63.0%. The underemployment rate (U-6) rose to 12.7% from 12.6%. Average weekly hours worked rose to 34.5 in March  from 34.3 in February. Average hourly earnings were unchanged after posting a 0.4% advance in February, missing expectations for an additional 0.2% rise. The year-over-year growth rate ticked down to 2.1% from 2.2%. Click here for the full release » FREE AppDownload
APCantor Fitzgerald analyst Brian White has been touring China and Taiwan this week, and filing reports on what he's hearing.  Today, he has some bad news for Apple (and Samsung): During today's discussions, we walked away with the clear message that the momentum remains with the China-based smartphone vendors, including Lenovo, Huawei, ZTE, Coolpad, and Xiaomi. The tone around Xiaomi was even more positive than in past trips, while Coolpad seems to be the most aggressive around pricing.  We believe the momentum at the China-based brands is increasingly impacting Samsung, while Apple has already been struggling over the past 12-18 months. In the near term, we sensed disappointment around demand for the iPhone 5S.  That said, we heard great enthusiasm around the potential for Apple to introduce a larger iPhone form factor in China this year with the iPhone 6. In our view, the iPhone 6 with a larger screen (e.g., 4.7-inch, 5.5-inch) has the potential to meaningfully accelerate Apple's growth trajectory in China during 2H:14. We have not heard this type of excitement in China around the iPhone in at least two years and thus we believe this could be a very special iPhone launch for Apple. White is an Apple bull. He rates the stock a buy and has a $777 price target.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Creative ToolsTwitter is bullish on today's jobs report. The median estimate for today's nonfarm payrolls number is 215,000, above the Wall Street consensus estimate of 200,000. The mean estimate is 216,136, and the standard deviation is 25,766. These numbers were calculated from 138 tweets using the hashtag #NFPGuesses through 7:45 AM ET this morning. The top and bottom 10% of responses were thrown out. The jobs report is out at 8:30. Follow the release LIVE on Business Insider » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paulo WhitakerTraders work the floor of the dollar pit at the Futures and Commodities Market (BM&F) in Sao Paulo in 2003The median forecast of the 90 market economists polled by Bloomberg calls for payroll gains of 200,000 in March, entirely from job creation in the private sector. The low estimate is 150,000 and the high estimate is 275,000. The unemployment rate is expected to tick down to 6.6% from 6.7%. Joe LaVorgna and Carl Riccadonna at Deutsche Bank, Brian Jones at Société Générale, and Toby Dayton at LinkUp are among the economists that have publicly forecasted 275,000. "While our forecast of +275k appears aggressive at first glance, it actually reflects a return to trend job creation of approximately +175k (the six-month average is +177k) with a weather-related payback of roughly +100k," said Deutsche Bank's team. Privately, there may be many more on the bullish end of the spectrum. The so-called "whisper" estimate is speculated to be very high, largely due to an expected snapback from the unusually chilly winter. Here's Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere: LOUD WHISPERS:  The consensus for this morning's jobs report is for a rise of 200,000 nonfarm payrolls, with the unemployment rate falling from 6.7% to 6.6%.  But the "whisper numbers," anticipating a snap-back from the terrible winter, are much higher; our friend Diane Swonk at Mesirow Financial thinks payrolls may rise by 240,000.  We'll go out on a limb . . .  JOBLESS RATE COULD BE CLOSE TO 6% BY FALL:  Many economists now believe a gain of 100,000 jobs (or even a bit less) can take a tenth of a percent off the unemployment rate.  Moreover, it looks like the House will not agree to any extension of unemployment benefits, which means the jobless rate should fall further.  Even if people re-enter the job market this spring as the economy improves, there's a growing case for the unemployment rate falling to close to 6% by fall. The implication of a higher whisper number is that a 200k print, which would be in-line with published expectations, would come off as a disappointment. The BLS will publish the jobs numbers at 8:30 a.m. ET. FREE AppDownload
AFPNew York's bike-share program may be hugely popular with just over 100,000 annual members but after operating less than a year, it is desperately searching for a $14 million investment. A long, freezing winter may have put the brakes on all but the most fanatical of cyclists, but with the arrival of spring the bikes' royal blue livery will once again become omnipresent. Since their launch in May 2013, Citi Bikes have traveled 11.26 million kilometers (7 million miles). In good weather, they make an average of 36,000 trips a day although that figure dropped to 8,000 during an icy February. Bad omens have not come true: there have been few injuries and no deaths as the bikes jostle for space with pedestrians, taxis, cars, trucks and delivery men in the city that never sleeps. But while the scheme will celebrate its first anniversary next month, officials admit they are on the hunt for new investors -- and millions of dollars. "Our parent company, Alta Bicycle Share, is seeking investment that will allow us, Citi Bike, to expand to 10,000 bikes," NYC Bike Share spokeswoman Dani Simons told AFP. "That would cost about $14 million," she said. ABS "is also speaking to investors about a variety of possible investment opportunities." - No New York bailout - In New York, unlike most cities, the network was set up on the grounds that it would cost the taxpayer nothing. The first sponsor, Citigroup, paid $41 million over five years to have its logo on 6,000 bikes and 332 stations in southern Manhattan and various parts of Brooklyn. That was supposed to be a first step before the scheme was widened to 10,000 bikes and nearly 600 stations in a larger area. But maintenance turned out to be more expensive than anticipated. Technological problems sometimes shut down bike stations or prevented riders from paying by bank card. What's more, the director general of Citi Bike, Justin Ginsburgh, resigned recently. And in January, the Canadian company Bixi, which makes the equipment and technology, went bankrupt. If annual membership, at $95, exceeded expectations, then the rates of $35 a week and $9.95 a day, mainly targeting tourists, have been disappointing. "It was our first year, we didn't have a lot of time to deal with marketing," said Simons. "We'll be doing more this year." While waiting for more funding, expansion projects risk remaining on ice. No date for any such plans has been set, she acknowledged. Citi Bike has discussed raising rates but so far no decision has been made. Officials confirm they have not asked New York for money. "At this point, city budget money is not on the table," New York Mayor Bill de Blasio said. "We will collaborate with them to help them find ways to be more efficient and more effective." Transport Commissioner Polly Trottenberg has been frank. "We all know Citi Bike has been tremendously popular with New Yorkers. But there have been significant financial and operational issues," she said in a statement. She listed those issues as a need for more effective redistribution of bikes and technology problems resulting in malfunctioning stations and failed credit card transactions. "We expect the system's operator, NYC Bike Share, to resolve these issues so the system can perform effectively and ultimately expand," she said. "Everything is on the table for Citi Bike, from improving operations to new sponsorships, to additional financing." Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Enrique CalvoDancers perform over the crowd during a water party inside Paradis disco in San Antonio in the Spanish Balearic island of Ibiza.Plans to drill for oil off the Spanish holiday island of Ibiza have met with fierce opposition from locals who fear the white sand beaches and marine life will be damaged. "Everyone is against it here," said Carlos Bravo of the Blue Sea Alliance, an umbrella organization of 50 groups including environmentalists, hoteliers and unions, seeking to halt oil exploration off Ibiza and Formentera, a neighboring island that is only accessible by boat. More than 10,000 people, some carrying signs saying "The Mediterranean is not for sale", marched in February through the streets of the capital Ibiza Town against the planned exploration. Their campaign has the backing of celebrities like US socialite Paris Hilton and British model Kate Moss who are regular visitors to Ibiza, one of Europe's top tourist destinations which is famous for its nightclubs and turquoise waters. "Ibiza is in danger. It is not a myth, not a metaphor and not an exaggeration. The island is facing an ecological disaster," Hilton wrote on her Instagram page earlier this year. Moss has signed a petition urging the Spanish government not to allow the oil prospecting to go ahead, and posted a photo of herself holding a sign that read "Ibiza Says No" to her 32.8 million Twitter followers. The project dates back to 2010 when British firm Cairn Energy obtained four exploration licenses for the waters around the Balearic Islands, one of which is Ibiza. The company now plans to use seismic imaging, which bounces sound waves off the ocean floor, to map pockets of underground oil in the region before it applies for government permits to start drilling. Cairn Energy said it will carry out the seismic imaging over 2,400 square kilometres (930 square miles), an area roughly the size of Luxembourg, 53 kilometres (32 miles) from Ibiza. "The company is currently at the very early stages of assessing whether to explore for hydrocarbons," it said in a statement, before adding that the seismic imaging will take place "at a time when any impact will be at a minimum, most likely in the winter months". Environmentalists warn the sonic shocks used in seismic imaging are a threat to marine life. The deep waters around the Balearic Islands are home to the endangered bluefin tuna, the striped dolphin, the long-finned pilot whale and sperm whales. "Cetaceans are very sensible to noise. This will interfere with their capacity to communicate and search for food," said Txema Brotons, the president of Tursiops, a research and conservation group based in the Balearic Islands. The seismic imaging will use airguns that produce a loud sound every 10 seconds, round-the-clock, for 75 days, said Bravo of the Blue Sea Alliance. "They generate a huge noise level, 10,000 to 100,000 times louder than the engine of an plane, which seriously harms fish, cetaceans, turtles and invertebrates," said Bravo. Local fishermen fear the seismic imaging will ruin their catches. "Cetaceans, fish and their larvae... they are all going to leave," said Pere Valera, the head of Ibiza's main fishermen's group. "We have seen what has happened elsewhere, there was a 70 percent reduction in catches after seismic imaging." Opponents also fear that oil exploration will hurt tourism in Ibiza, the main source of revenues for the island which is an UNESCO World Heritage Site. "The Balearic Islands' oil is tourism," said the head of the islands' regional government, Jose Ramon Bauza, who belongs to the conservative Popular Party in power at Spain's national level. Of all the advanced economies of the OECD grouping, Spain is the most reliant on energy imports, which account for 99.9 percent of its oil and gas. The Spanish government is looking to reduce this dependence by developing Spain's own energy production. The Spanish oil industry could create 250,000 jobs and account for 4.3 percent of gross domestic product within 20 years, according to a report published last month by consulting firm Deloitte. The report is based on an estimate that Spain has reserves of two billion barrels of oil. Environmentalists are discouraged by the example set by Spain's Canary Islands, where seismic imaging has already taken place and oil drilling is set to begin later this year despite protests by island residents. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
LinkUpFeeling a bit like Charlie Brown as we await Friday’s jobs report, we are forecasting very strong job gains in March, capping a solid quarter overall for the nation’s labor market. But if this feels like deja vu all over again, it’s because we’ve been here before. In fact, over the past 3 years, the economy began each year with strong job gains only to see the labor market weaken over the subsequent 3 quarters of the year. In only 1 of the 9 quarters following the 1st (Q4 ’11) did job gains exceed the high-water market set in that year’s 1st quarter. And so here we are again. LinkUp Based on our data from February in which new and total job openings in LinkUp’s job search engine (which indexes 2 million jobs from 50,000 corporate websites) rose 5.5% and 5.7% respectively, we are forecasting that a net gain of 275,000 jobs were added to the U.S. economy in March. Not accounting for any potential BLS revisions, that would result in Q1 job gains of 579,000 – not quite as solid as 2012 or 2013, but substantially better than 2011. Unfortunately, in each of the 3 years between 2011 and 2013, the labor market slowed markedly in the 2nd quarter, with job growth declining an average of 40% from the 1st quarter. In 2012 the drop was particularly horrific, with job gains dropping from 677,000 in Q1 to a miserable 200,000 in Q2. But just like good Ol’ Charlie Brown, we remain hopeful that this time maybe, just maybe, things will be different. Maybe this time, Lucy won’t pull the ball away from us at the last minute. Maybe this year is truly the ‘gear year’ as Jim Paulsen calls it. If our data from March is any indication, at least April should kick off Q2 with very strong job gains. In March, new job listings on company websites rose by 18%, while total job listings rose by 8%. Even more encouraging, new and total job listings rose in all 50 states. LinkUp Similar growth was seen in new and total job openings by category, with new listings rising 20% from February and total listings climbing 8% from the prior month. Increases occurred in 30 of 31 job categories tracked by LinkUp with new openings in Oil, Gas, &amp; Utilities as the only decline. LinkUp With the blended average gain of 5.6% in new and total job listings seen in February and the 4.3% seen in March (which is different than the data tables for March shown above due to our paired-month methodology), we are forecasting net job gains of 275,000 for March and our preliminary forecast for April is a net gain of 325,000 jobs. LinkUp Let’s hope we’re not being a blockhead about the outlook. LinkUp This article originally appeared at LinkUp.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Patrick Brooks/flickrGood morning! Here's what you need to know. Jobs day. BLS will release non-farm payrolls data for March at 8:30 a.m. Expectations are for a gain of more than 200,000, compared with a reading of 176,000 in February. Ed Bradford, a bond trader in Connecticut who goes by @fullcarry on Twitter, has put together 10 reasons why the number could be huge — among them recent bullish data from other employment surveys, and the end of extreme weather.  275,000? Indeed, some forecasters are predicting a reading of 275,000. "While our forecast of +275k appears aggressive at first glance, it actually reflects a return to trend job creation of approximately +175k (the six-month average is +177k) with a weather-related payback of roughly +100k," Deutsche Bank said. "This is consistent with prior episodes in which weather-impairment was followed by a temporary surge." Wage growth. Last month we saw a jump in wage growth, and today's figures will tell us whether that was a fluke. "Specifically, it has been argued that some hourly wage workers still were paid even if the weather prevented them from working," explains Maury Harris, chief economist at UBS. "If that were the case and if the hours worked of such workers were reported as down, reported average hourly earnings statistics would be upward biased. However, we have at least tentatively rejected that hypothesis. When we compared average hourly earnings changes and average workweek changes across industries in February, we did not observe the negative correlation implied by the hypothesis." PIMCO oversight. Large investors in PIMCO parent-company Allianz are calling on the German company to give more oversight to PIMCO as investors continue to withdraw billions from the mutual fund. "The leash is obviously too long because there is a performance issue now," said one top-10 investor. "A fully owned subsidiary should not be run like this." Dallas Fed's Fisher on guidance. Dick Fisher told an audience in Hong Kong that the Fed must extricate itself from time-based guidance. "Fisher said he worried that predictable commitments were unsound policy as they could lead to false complacency and market instability," Reuters reported. Booming Germany. German manufacturing orders climbed 0.6% in February, above the expected unchanged reading for the month, on strong domestic demand. "An excellent growth performance of the German economy in the first quarter is clearly in the making," said economist Carsten Brzeski of ING in a research note according to Markewtach, though the pace will likely "return to more normal growth rates" in coming months. Erdogan rattles lira. The Turkish lira dropped 0.6% against the dollar after Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan Friday called for a rate cut. "The Turkish central bank in January had surprised markets, and defied government pressure, with a hefty emergency rate rise that helped arrest an alarming slide in the lira," Marketwatch. Seamless NYSE debut. GrubHub, the parent company for food delivery megasite Seamless, will make its NYSE debut today on the ticker GRUB. The firm said Thursday it would sell at least 7.4 million shares at a price of $26 apiece, up from the prior targets of selling about 7 million shares for $23 to $25 apiece, according to the Wall Street Journal.  China IOUs. David Wessel summarizes a report this morning in the Journal that 16% of China's money supply comprises "transferable bank-guaranteed IOUs that firms are using lieu of scarce cash." "Uh oh," he Tweeted. Markets. Stocks in Europe were higher led by London's FTSE at 0.41%, while in Asia they were mostly lower. U.S. futures were higher. Commodity futures were up. FREE AppDownload
The median forecast of the 90 market economists polled by Bloomberg calls for payroll gains of 200,000 in March, entirely from job creation in the private sector. The low estimate is 150,000 and the high estimate is 275,000. A few forecasters are predicting 275,000: Joe LaVorgna and Carl Riccadonna at Deutsche Bank, Brian Jones at Société Générale, and Toby Dayton at LinkUp. Here are their previews of the release: JOE LAVORGNA AND CARL RICCADONNA, DEUTSCHE BANK: We are anticipating a sizeable increase in March employment, when the data are reported on Friday. While our forecast of +275k appears aggressive at first glance, it actually reflects a return to trend job creation of approximately +175k (the six-month average is +177k) with a weather-related payback of roughly +100k. This is consistent with prior episodes in which weather-impairment was followed by a temporary surge. However, it is unlikely the March report will fully reflect payback from the recent weather disruptions spanning December-February, so we expect April payrolls to also show an elevated increase relative to the underlying trend. Beyond the headline payroll print, it will be equally important for forecasters to track aggregate hours worked, because weather also reduced the length of the workweek for many workers last month—thereby reducing paychecks for hourly workers. In fact, according to data from the household survey, 6.9 million workers experienced reduced hours due to bad weather in February—the highest reading of any February since at least 1977. Depressed hiring and reduced hours over the past few months have taken a toll on wage and salary income, which rose just +1.3% annualized since November. A rebound in aggregate hours will provide an important indication that income growth is reaccelerating, thereby making allowance for faster consumption gains. There is already some evidence in other labor series that this recovery is underway. Two key labor metrics—jobless claims and tax receipts—corroborate our view that underlying economic momentum has not faded. Initial jobless claims have improved significantly since late February. The four-week moving average (318k) is at a post-recession low (barring a brief period when the figures were distorted in H2 2013). Similarly, withheld income tax receipts are also sending a strong positive signal, as shown in the figure below. Due to the expiration of the payroll tax holiday at the end of 2012, tax receipts were elevated in 2013. The tax receipt trend in early 2014 is more meaningful, because it compares periods with similar tax rates. The recent acceleration is an encouraging sign that the labor market continues to improve, particularly since the latest data point (+8.4% year-on-year) is consistent with the growth rates during two prior periods of healthy job creation (1994 to 2000 and late-2004 to early-2007). Since tax receipts are not subject to revision, the recent results give us confidence that a significant pickup in hiring is coming soon. BRIAN JONES, SOCIETE GENERALE: Hiring heated up with temperatures in March A marked improvement in weather conditions, along with solid underlying demand for new workers, probably propelled nonfarm payrolls 275,000 higher in March, in our view, more than double the 129,000 average net hires posted over the prior three months (see chart below left). Fundamental and climatic factors support our call for yet another above-consensus print. Consistent with a further slowdown in layoffs, the average number of persons filing initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits over the four weeks heading into the March establishment survey fell by 11,000 to 327,000 – the lowest level since October 2007. Hinting that many of the previously unemployed found work between canvasses, the number of persons on regular state benefit rolls likely contracted by 145,000 to 2.8 million – the first decline in four months. Despite the surge in the number of persons unable to work because of bad weather in February, the breadth of worker additions across non-agricultural establishments narrowed only marginally, with the BLS’ one-month diffusion index retreating from 60.6 to a still very respectable 59.3. Positive swing in weather conditions buoyed hiring Weather conditions are expected to provide a significant lift to job creation in March. At 42.1o F over the first two weeks of the month, the average temperature nationwide was just one degree below normal compared to the 5.6o F shortfall over the corresponding period in February. Indeed, we have assumed in our forecast that the number of persons unable to work because of bad weather in the household survey – our proxy for the impact of climatic conditions on jobs – dropped to 124,000 in March from the eye-catching 601,000 recorded in February (see chart below centre). After adjusting that household survey series for seasonality, our statistical model projects a 35,000 boost from improved weather in the March report. Net prior-month revisions once again expected to be positive Continuing a string of upward adjustments going back to last September’s report, we expect the BLS to boost modestly the previously posted net job gain over the January-February span. Our statistical model’s in-sample estimates hint that while the preliminary February print might be trimmed by 27,000 to 148,000, the final January figure will be raised by 51,000 to 180,000 (see chart below right), producing a cumulative upward revision of 24,000 jobs. TOBY DAYTON, LINKUP: Feeling a bit like Charlie Brown as we await Friday’s jobs report, we are forecasting very strong job gains in March, capping a solid quarter overall for the nation’s labor market. But if this feels like deja vu all over again, it’s because we’ve been here before. In fact, over the past 3 years, the economy began each year with strong job gains only to see the labor market weaken over the subsequent 3 quarters of the year. In only 1 of the 9 quarters following the 1st (Q4 ’11) did job gains exceed the high-water market set in that year’s 1st quarter. And so here we are again. Based on our data from February in which new and total job openings in LinkUp’s job search engine (which indexes 2 million jobs from 50,000 corporate websites) rose 5.5% and 5.7% respectively, we are forecasting that a net gain of 275,000 jobs were added to the U.S. economy in March. Not accounting for any potential BLS revisions, that would result in Q1 job gains of 579,000 – not quite as solid as 2012 or 2013, but substantially better than 2011. Unfortunately, in each of the 3 years between 2011 and 2013, the labor market slowed markedly in the 2nd quarter, with job growth declining an average of 40% from the 1st quarter. In 2012 the drop was particularly horrific, with job gains dropping from 677,000 in Q1 to a miserable 200,000 in Q2. But just like good Ol’ Charlie Brown, we remain hopeful that this time maybe, just maybe, things will be different. Maybe this time, Lucy won’t pull the ball away from us at the last minute. Maybe this year is truly the ‘gear year’ as Jim Paulsen calls it. If our data from March is any indication, at least April should kick off Q2 with very strong job gains. In March, new job listings on company websites rose by 18%, while total job listings rose by 8%. Even more encouraging, new and total job listings rose in all 50 states. Similar growth was seen in new and total job openings by category, with new listings rising 20% from February and total listings climbing 8% from the prior month. Increases occurred in 30 of 31 job categories tracked by LinkUp with new openings in Oil, Gas, &amp; Utilities as the only decline. With the blended average gain of 5.6% in new and total job listings seen in February and the 4.3% seen in March (which is different than the data tables for March shown above due to our paired-month methodology), we are forecasting net job gains of 275,000 for March and our preliminary forecast for April is a net gain of 325,000 jobs. Let’s hope we’re not being a blockhead about the outlook. The jobs report is due out from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics at 8:30 AM ET. Click here for a complete preview » FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
SG Cross Asset ResearchSociété Générale economist Brian Jones predicts 275,000 workers were added to nonfarm payrolls in January, well above the 200,000 consensus estimate. Jones doesn't stop at a prediction for how many payrolls were created in January, though. He also predicts exactly how markets will move immediately following the release. "The SG forecast is substantially above consensus and hence a positive intraday impact for risky assets is expected if our estimate materialises," says Jones. "We expect [the S&amp;P 500] to move up by 0.5% and the [10-year] USD swap rate by 4 basis points up in the first half-an-hour after the release." Jones says there is a statistical relationship between the deviation of the actual nonfarm payroll print from the consensus forecast and the market's reaction. "The relationship between asset changes around the release and the spread NFP versus consensus is measured by a regression (OLS)," says Jones. The jobs report is due out from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics at 8:30 AM ET. Click here for a complete preview » FREE AppDownload
Here's Goldman's forecast for the big Jobs Report: We forecast a 200,000 increase in nonfarm payrolls in March, in line with consensus expectations. We view the reasonably solid February gain of 175,000 despite extremely adverse weather conditions as providing some confirmation that the underlying trend growth rate of payrolls remains solid. Key employment indicators looked mixed-to-better in March, and despite the continued cold temperatures, less extreme weather conditions overall should give an additional boost to job gains this month. We expect that the unemployment rate declined to 6.6% in March (vs. consensus 6.6%). We also expect that hours worked, which tend to show a larger impact from severe weather conditions, will rebound from their February decline. As the flip side of this rebound in hours, we expect a softer +0.1% gain in average hourly earnings (vs. consensus +0.2%) as last month's unusually large gain--likely driven by weather distortions--partially reverses. For a fuller preview, see Matthew Boesler here &gt; FREE AppDownload
Flickr/kryptoSAN FRANCISCO/NEW YORK (Reuters) - With the wind-down of the Federal Reserve's massive bond buying under way, policymakers are beginning to discuss the next stage - when to allow the U.S. central bank's swollen balance sheet to shrink. If the Fed sticks to a plan laid out in June 2011, a decision to stop reinvesting bond proceeds would precede any increase in interest rates and mark the beginning of the Fed's first tightening cycle since 2004-2006. But at least some officials are having second thoughts. Discussions with several policymakers suggest some would rather make the delicate shift around the same time as the first rate increase, perhaps near the middle of next year. And those who stick by the Fed's original plan say they must make sure markets understand that leaving the buyers club does not mean higher rates are necessarily right around the corner. Either way, a decision to finally stop reinvesting proceeds from its Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities would mark the first step in an effort by the Fed to shrink its balance sheet from unprecedented levels. Halting reinvestments would send a strong signal to the public that the recession-hit U.S. economy has effectively regained its footing and should prepare for higher rates. It also would modestly reduce downward pressure on long-term borrowing costs, unless markets mistook it as a signal of a more aggressive move to come. San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank President John Williams told Reuters such a move would indicate rate hikes were coming in the "foreseeable future," but not that they were "imminent." "What we have to be careful about and very deliberate about in communicating is that this action should not be misconstrued or misinterpreted as a signal of an imminent rate hike, or, if you will, tighter policy than people were otherwise expecting." That, Williams said, was the hard lesson learned last May. At that time, stocks and bonds swooned after then Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke suggested the central bank would begin to reduce its bond-buying program in coming months. "You want it to be part of that glide path, if you will, as part of our policy that we expect interest rates to remain low for a few more years," he said in the interview. "What worries me that whenever we do one thing, people read too much into it." Financial markets have shown great sensitivity to any sign rates might move up sooner than had been expected. Last month, the Fed said there would be a "considerable time" between the end of the asset purchases and the beginning of rate hikes. But when Fed Chair Janet Yellen said that could mean six months, markets took a dive. The question of reinvestments, however, has so far attracted little attention. "We could play that card at any time," St. Louis Fed President James Bullard told reporters last week at an investment conference in Hong Kong. "I think the markets have forgotten about that element of policy." Most economists think the Fed will keep topping up its balance sheet for some time after it stops outright bond purchases. Announcing an end to that practice could help set the stage for a pending rate hike. "That decision is a key ammunition, and it is unlikely the Fed will spoil two cartridges at the same time by ending the reinvestment while hiking (rates)," said Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard Chartered Bank. "The Fed will likely shoot gradually one after the other." A more cautious approach, however, would be to halt reinvestments at the same time that rates are raised from zero, where they have been since late 2008. "When we finally get to the point when we need to increase the funds rate, probably most likely ... we would have still been reinvesting the proceeds," Chicago Fed President Charles Evans told reporters at the Hong Kong conference. "Then we'll make a judgment as to when it will be appropriate to start letting that run off a little bit." In a research paper a year ago, top Fed economists assumed reinvestments would be halted six months after the end of the asset purchases and six months before the first rate hike. That, however, runs counter to Yellen's suggestion that a rate hike might come much sooner. In 2011, the Fed outlined its so-called exit strategy in which halting reinvestments was the first step to shrinking its balance sheet, which now tops $4 trillion, down to a more normal size around $1 trillion. New York Fed President William Dudley has called that strategy "stale" in part because the Fed has since abandoned a key pillar: the eventual sale its mortgage-backed securities. The strategy may also need updating because the central bank will likely rely heavily on a new facility that will drain bank reserves through reverse repurchase agreements, a tool that was not available when the paper was published. Yet officials are wary of formally updating the strategy, possibly for fear of chaining themselves to a specific plan as they navigate a difficult policy reversal. Out of a handful of Fed policymakers asked in recent months whether it was time for an update, only Williams agreed. In the interview on Wednesday, Williams said he does not, however, think the Fed needs to issue a formal statement spelling out an updated exit strategy, including whether to halt reinvestments before rate hikes, or after. Both approaches "have pluses and minuses - I don't really have a view about whether one is better than the other," he said. "What's important to us is to make sure that whatever our plan is around those specific technical details, that we explain ... what are our broad plans and try to help people understand that and not to over-misinterpret things." Since very few of the Fed's Treasury bonds expire before 2016, the initial effect on markets could be small. But the run-off will increase over the following few years and last for more than a decade to come, based on current holdings. (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer and Ann Saphir; Additional reporting by Michael Flaherty in Hong Kong; Editing by Tim Ahmann and Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from St. Louis Fed)On a non-seasonally adjusted basis, job growth has slowed sharply since November.Today, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics will release the March jobs report. This one is definitely interesting because it follows three months of subpar readings on the state of the labor market, indicative of weakness many have been quick to attribute to the unusually harsh winter weather America has experienced this year. On a seasonally-adjusted basis, only 129,000 jobs were created on average over the three-month period through February. The 12-month average prior to the onset of bad weather in December was 204,000, and the last three months of data have dragged that number down to 183,000. The weather lifted in March. The big question is whether the U.S. economy saw a big "snap back" in hiring as business as usual resumed last month. "The hope among forecasters and most investors that we spoke with is that weather effects on data are finally about to be erased, especially as there was less disruptive snowfall in March," says George Goncalves, head of rates research at Nomura. The median forecast of the 90 market economists polled by Bloomberg calls for payroll gains of 200,000 in March, entirely from job creation in the private sector. The low estimate is 150,000 and the high estimate is 275,000. The unemployment rate, meanwhile, is expected to tick down to 6.6% from 6.7%. Average weekly hours worked is expected to rise to 34.4 from 32.2. The length of the average work week has fallen over the last three months from 34.5 hours in November as weather has kept workers at home. This puts wage growth in the spotlight. In February, average hourly earnings rose 0.4% — the biggest monthly gain since June. The rise boosted the year-over-year change in earnings to 2.2% from 2.0%. Economists predict monthly earnings growth slowed back down to 0.2% in March, which would further boost annual wage growth to 2.3%. Friday's release should clarify how much last month's wage gains were a fluke. "Specifically, it has been argued that some hourly wage workers still were paid even if the weather prevented them from working," explains Maury Harris, chief economist at UBS. "If that were the case and if the hours worked of such workers were reported as down, reported average hourly earnings statistics would be upward biased. However, we have at least tentatively rejected that hypothesis. When we compared average hourly earnings changes and average workweek changes across industries in February, we did not observe the negative correlation implied by the hypothesis." Of course, there's a good chance that if we don't see any sort of weather-related snap back in hiring in March, investors will hold out hope for April. "Historically we see a good amount of variability in the pace and timing of the recovery as the colder months pass," says Nomura's Goncalves. "The 1995-96 winter was the most dramatic, where nonfarm payrolls beat expectations by 605,000 in February after disappointing by 344,000 in January. In other years, large rebounds relative to expectations took longer to surface — until March in 1994 and until April in 2010 and 2011. One possible concern is that because the magnitude of recent nonfarm payroll misses paled the 1996 misses, the risk of a significant rebound is skewed more toward the April print (as in 2010/11) rather than the upcoming March print." The results of the Institute for Supply Management's monthly survey of purchasing managers at U.S. non-manufacturing firms released Thursday suggested that after a reduction in employee headcount in February, companies were back to hiring in March. The ISM non-manufacturing employment sub-index — a number closely watched by traders, because service industries account for around 80% of hiring in America and economists use it as an input into their forecasts for the official jobs report — posted its biggest monthly gain on record. "Overall, we expect the stronger tone of ISM employment data to augur positively for Friday’s nonfarm payroll report," says Gennadiy Goldberg, a U.S. strategist at TD Securities. The BLS releases the jobs report on Friday morning at 8:30 AM ET. Follow the data LIVE on Business Insider » FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTo match Feature FOOD-WHISKY/CHINABy Nina Chestney SPEYSIDE (Reuters) - Scotch whisky distillers are burning their unwanted grain byproducts, wood chips and other types of biomass for a source of energy in remote areas of the Highlands, where gas links are scarce and fuel oil is pricey. The production of Scotch whisky has evolved over more than 500 years and is steeped in tradition. It is also a big business, generating 4 billion pounds ($6 billion) a year in exports - a quarter of all Britain's food and drink sales abroad. New distilleries are being built to meet demand from over 200 countries around the world including new markets in Asia, Latin America and the Middle East. Family-run, centuries-old distilleries are trying to minimize operational costs. Most distilleries in Scotland have relied on heavy fuel oil to generate heat for distilling processes, but biomass such as wood, plant-based material or organic waste is now an increasingly attractive and reliable option. "As we expand capacity, biomass will be an integral part of what we are doing going forward," said Gerry O'Hagan, operational excellence director of spirits and wine for Diageo, the world's biggest spirits company. In the whisky-making heartland of Speyside in north-east Scotland, Diageo opened a 45 million pound distillery four years ago at Roseisle. Barley fields surround the modern industrial building, with glistening glass walls enclosing huge copper stills. The distillery, which has no access to a gas line, produces 10.5 million liters a year, which is matured for a minimum of three years before being used in brands such as Johnnie Walker. Diageo has spent 17 million pounds on a bioenergy plant with a capacity of 8 to 10 megawatts (MW), or enough to power up to 10,000 homes. The distillery gets over half of its energy from the biomass plant, which also saves around 10,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions a year. The plant generates energy by burning byproducts of the distilling process such as spent grains, which would otherwise have been sent to farmers for use in animal feed. The rest of the distillery's energy comes from burning heavy fuel oil, which is more harmful to the environment and more expensive. Diageo hopes to increase renewable energy to around 80 percent of the plant's total by mixing its byproducts with wood pellets. "There is concern about energy (prices) in the long term and about how we can make ourselves as self-sufficient as we possibly can," O'Hagan said. Diageo also has installed a bigger, 30 MW bioenergy plant at its Cameronbridge distillery near Edinburgh; is building another plant at its Glendullan distillery in Speyside and has plans for a third at a new malt whisky distillery, also in Speyside. "There are around 20 new distillery projects at the moment. Some of them are tiny, but around half are in the planning stage, and many of them are asking about biomass," said Julie Hesketh-Laird, director of operation and technical affairs at the Scottish Whisky Association. "It makes good business to keep your energy costs down," she added. Today's distillers have to contend with volatile energy and commodity prices; often uncertain barley harvest yields due to more extreme weather patterns; and customers such as supermarkets that are scrutinizing their green credentials. North Sea oil production is in decline, and the debate around Scottish independence has raised the question of who might control the $2.5 trillion of reserves, which adds to uncertainty about future oil supply. "There is a question mark about heavy oil supply and how much there is left. As an industry we don't look at tomorrow or next week, we are looking at 12, 15 or 20 years down the line," said Graham Eunson, general manager of the smaller Tomatin distillery. Smaller, more traditional distilleries must rely on government subsidies to make the economics of biomass work. Under a scheme called the Renewable Heat Incentive (RHI), the government rewards the use of renewable energy technology. Remote Tomatin, 315 meters above sea level on the eastern edge of the Monadhliath Mountains, produces 2.5 million litres a year. Two thirds of its over 40-strong workforce live in housing on its 140-acre estate. The plant is one of the oldest distilleries in Scotland, with whisky thought to have been made at the site as early as the 16th century. But it has experienced troubled times, going into liquidation in the 1980s before being bought by Japanese sake maker Takara Shuzo Co. Tomatin, which has no gas links, had relied on fuel oil until last year, when it installed a 4 MW biomass boiler that burns wood pellets. "To make that sort of investment on an unknown fuel source is a gamble. It is still perceived as a risk, because if it doesn't work, it's an expensive mistake," Eunson said. "When we learnt we could get RHI payments, it was a key driver. As much as would love to be the most environmentally friendly firm, if the price of production (from biomass) is twice as high, it would put us at a huge disadvantage." Biomass has now replaced 82 percent of the fuel oil it would have used, and Tomatin has cut its annual fuel costs by a third. Furthermore, "if something happens which impacts the oil price, we are now safeguarded from that to a certain extent," Eunson said. (editing by Jane Baird) FREE AppDownload
Luke MacGregor/ReutersIt's hard out there for the 1 percent. Okay, that's not true at all. But they think it is. If you talk to people on Wall Street, most of them—even, in my experience, the ones shopping for Lamborghinis—will tell you that they're "middle class." Their lament, the lament of the HENRY (short for "high-earner, not rich yet"), goes something like this.  You try living on $350,000 a year when you have to pay taxes, the mortgage on the house in a tony zip code, the nanny who knows how to cook ethnic cuisine, the private school tuition from pre-K on, the appropriately exclusive vacation, and max out your retirement and college savings accounts. There just isn't that much cash left over each month once you've spent it all! Well, sure. But burning through your money to live the lifestyle of the rich and unfamous doesn't mean you're not rich. Nor does it mean that the top 1 percent haven't been pulling away from everyone else. They have. You can see that in the chart below from Berkeley economist Emmanuel Saez's numbers on income inequality. It looks at how much different parts of the 1 percent have made as a share of total income. Now, the top 0.01 percent—that is, the 1 percent of the 1 percent—have increased the most, almost quintupling their income share in the last 40 years. But the "bottom of the 1 percent" (the 99 to 99.5 percent) have increased too. So both the super-rich and the merely rich are growing faster than everyone else. The AtlanticBut just because the rich are making more doesn't mean that they're worth more. As my colleague Derek Thompson points out, new research from Saez and Zucman shows that the "bottom of the 1 percent" have actually seen their wealth share fall the last few decades. Only the top 0.1 percent, and really the top 0.01 percent, have increased theirs—in the latter case, almost four times. Now, remember, income is how much money comes into your bank account each year, and wealth is how much money you already have in it, along with any stocks, bonds, and real estate (minus any debts). In other words, income is a flow and wealth is a stock. Still, there should be a large degree of overlap between the top 1 percent of earners and the top 1 percent of wealth-holders. So why hasn't wealth inequality exploded quite as much as income inequality? Part of it is that the top 1 percent of earners aren't the same people each year. Now, take another look at our income inequality chart. The "bottom of the 1 percent"—the doctors, lawyers, and other professionals with consistent incomes—actually haven't increased that much the last 30 years. It's the rest that really have. But the top 0.5 percent are different from me, you, and even the 99 to 99.5 percent: their incomes bounce up and down with the stock market. Unless they have the kind of dynastic wealth that they can live off of, it's hard to stay in that rarified group from one year to the next. So it shouldn't surprise us that our new Gilded Age has been of, for, and by the 1 percent of the 1 percent. But another part of it is status anxiety. Not just conspicuous consumption, though there is plenty of that. Rather, it's the terror that their kids will fall behind. That if they don't get their toddler into the right preschool, they'll blow any chance of getting them into Harvard. So they spend ungodly sums on tuition, tutors, and enrichment activities to try to keep up with the other 1 percenters in the college admissions arms race. There's a perverse logic to it all: the richer the 1 percent get, the higher the cost of falling out. And that's why the "bottom of the 1 percent" in particular aren't getting wealthier. They're making more, but they're also spending more on their kids. The merely rich don't think they are rich because they aren't rentiers. They think "rich" means having the kind of aristocratic wealth that lets you quit your job and live comfortably off your interest income alone. They're wealthy, but they're not that wealthy—and they're not getting any more so. That doesn't make them "middle class," but it does remind us that the future doesn't belong to the 1 percent. It belongs to the top 0.01 percent—and they already own it. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSold homes are seen in the southwest area of PortlandNEW YORK (Reuters) - In Indianapolis, an open house event tends to draw 10 people on a good day. But after the snowiest winter on record for the U.S. Midwestern city, prospective home buyers were champing at the bit: 45 people came to an open house late last month, according to mortgage executive Greg Block. "The realtor was dumbfounded," said Block, vice president of lending at Austin, Texas-based Open Mortgages, which has branches near Indianapolis. "The winters were so brutal across the country that people just hunkered down and didn't do anything." As much of the United States thaws out from a particularly frigid winter, signs are also pointing to a warmer national housing market. Anecdotal evidence from homebuilders, mortgage lenders and brokers suggest demand in the residential housing market is picking up, potentially paving the way for a broader acceleration in an economy that has been in a slow-growth mode since pulling out of the financial crisis. Housing is an important part of the economic fabric, contributing about 18 percent to Gross Domestic Product including private residential investment as well as consumption spending on housing services, according to the National Association of Home Builders. The positive reports from across the country are supported by data from the Mortgage Bankers Association showing that the volume of home-purchase mortgage applications has climbed more than 13 percent in the past five weeks, near its highest point in two months. Other positive economic indicators this week - including better-than-expected auto sales and solid private sector hiring in March - also could underpin strengthening consumer sentiment that is critical to gains in the housing market. U.S. consumer confidence, as tracked by the Conference Board, last month hit its highest levels in more than six years. "We also believe that most everything is pointing in the right direction," said Rex Gordon, vice president of corporate land at The Drees Company, a privately held homebuilder based in Fort Mitchell, Kentucky that sold 1,648 homes last year. At Drees, which sells mostly single-family detached homes in metropolitan areas across the country, foot traffic to its model locations was up about 8 percent in the past four weeks compared with a year ago, Gordon said. "Yes, construction was hit real hard because of the weather, but from a sales standpoint we've been encouraged," Gordon said. "The vibe is good; our sales people are happy. They're all working with prospects all the time." To be sure, some figures show that the housing market has been tepid. Housing starts fell for the third straight month in February, while homebuilder sentiment ticked up but remained mostly poor in March. Sales of existing homes have fallen 14.5 percent in the past seven months, while sales of new homes have flattened after rising in the back half of 2013. Also, mortgage applications may be up - but they are rising from the lowest levels in 18 years. And what rebound that may be underway is not benefiting every builder, yet. Beazer Homes USA Inc reported on Thursday that net new orders fell 9 percent in the quarter ending March 31. Still, some of the conditions that may have undercut demand are disappearing. Aside from the poor weather dampening construction and keeping home buyers indoors, the 16-day U.S. government shutdown last fall also may have weighed on would-be buyers, because it contributed to general uncertainty about the economy, according to homebuilders. "The fourth quarter with the government shutdown put a lot of people on the fence, so I think there was a lot of pent-up demand," said Jared Weggeland, director of sales and marketing at Southern Homes in Florida. At Southern, which builds homes averaging about $185,000 in Central Florida, January and February sales were the highest for those months since 2005, and "March was even better," Weggeland said. "Demand is extremely high right now," he said. Another factor that could energize the housing market is home buyers seeking to capitalize on low interest rates before those rates potentially spike higher. Take Renee Barrett, a nurse's assistant in Las Vegas, who got a pre-approval for a $249,000 mortgage a week ago. After shedding debt from a divorce, Barrett, who has a 13-year-old son, is hoping to buy a home as fast as she can, believing interest rates could easily pop back up to 7 percent or more. A 30-year mortgage rate is currently around 4.56 percent. Las Vegas' home prices fell by more than half during the housing bust. But the market has been recovering for a couple of years now and that recovery may be picking up pace. Rick Piette, a mortgage lender in the city, said his typical bill for credit checks for pre-qualification letters doubled from January to February. "I have seen an uptick in demand for the pre-approvals," Piette said. "I think the demand for the mortgages will follow, too." At Guaranteed Rate, a top 20 U.S. mortgage lender, March was the best month for new loans in half a year, said Chief Executive Victor Ciardelli. The company locked in $1.2 billion in loans for new purchases and refinancings last month, or around 26 percent more than it did in February. The cold winter "had a significant effect on business," but between pent-up demand among home buyers and tight inventories in the marketplace, the company is now seeing more multiple bids on homes, Ciardelli said. Like many large publicly traded homebuilders contacted by Reuters, Toll Brothers Inc declined to comment on demand trends. But Martin Connor, Toll's chief financial officer, said that given the company's luxury home focus "when we see consumer confidence statistics rising, that generally bodes well for us." Investors have begun to take note. The Dow Jones U.S. Home Construction index has risen 5 percent in the past 7 days. Rob Henger, director of mortgage banking with Lexington, Tennessee-based FirstBank, said he believes that confidence is back. The company's retail mortgage division saw a 16 percent increase in credit applications in March from February, after they rose 19 percent in February from January. "The damage to our industry and the public perception of housing and mortgage banking I think is 24 months behind us," said Henger. "Today, there's a renewed confidence." (Additional reporting by Peter Rudegeair and Phil Wahba in New York, and Sagarika Jaisinghani in Bangalore; Editing by Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo of Europe's biggest insurer Allianz SE is pictured at the Allianz Arena soccer stadium in MunichFRANKFURT (Reuters) - Several of the biggest investors in Allianz are pressing the German insurer to step up oversight of its California asset management unit Pimco and one is considering the unusual step of going public with its concerns at a shareholder meeting in May. Reuters contacted the 10 top investors in Allianz &lt;ALVG.DE&gt; as well as smaller shareholders to gauge their views on Pimco, the bond powerhouse whose reputation has been tarnished by a run of poor returns and the departure of CEO Mohamed El-Erian amid a row with co-founder Bill Gross. Six of the biggest shareholders declined to comment ahead of the Allianz annual general meeting (AGM), scheduled to take place on May 7. One expressed confidence that the German firm was addressing the management and performance issues at Pimco. However three other top shareholders, speaking to Reuters on condition that they were not identified, were more critical, saying Allianz still needed to persuade them that the problems at Newport Beach-based Pimco were under control. Specifically, they said they wanted the Munich-based firm to rethink the management structure that was put in place at Pimco after El-Erian's departure. The new configuration has six deputy chief investment officers (CIOs) under Gross. They also want assurances on Gross's pay and a detailed long-term plan on how Pimco plans to broaden its focus beyond fixed income. Allianz, which has said little publicly about Pimco's performance or the internal disagreements at the fund manager, declined to comment. Douglas Hodge, who replaced El-Erian as chief executive of Pimco, told Reuters on Thursday that the California group has spoken to "literally thousands" of its clients and that the vast majority are comfortable with the new structure. Over the last five years, Pimco points out, it has launched over 150 new investment funds across multiple platforms including private equity, hedge funds and active equities asset classes. The critics say the developments of the past months suggest Gross has been given too much freedom. Investors pulled $3.1 billion from Pimco's flagship Total Return fund in March, the 11th straight month of outflows from the world's largest bond fund, and its performance on the month lagged 95 percent of its peers, fund data firm Morningstar said this week. "The leash is obviously too long because there is a performance issue now," said one top-10 investor. "A fully owned subsidiary should not be run like this." A second top-10 investor said it was considering attending the Allianz AGM for the first time in years in order to raise questions about governance at Pimco that it feels need to be addressed in public. If the shareholder does take this step, it would be an unusual move in Germany, where big institutional holders usually voice their concerns in private. The three critics, which together hold less than 10 percent of Allianz shares, said they were still assessing whether private meetings with Allianz would be sufficient to alleviate their concerns. "For us performance is the issue, not the battle between Gross and El-Erian," the third top-10 critic said. According to Reuters data, the top 10 investors in Allianz are: Blackrock Asset Management, Credit Suisse Asset Management, Norges Bank, Harris Associates, Northern Cross, Blackrock Institutional Trust, The Vanguard Group, Deutsche Asset and Wealth Management, Allianz Global Investors Europe and Union Investment. BOND KING Gross, who turns 70 later this month, co-founded Pacific Investment Management Co (Pimco) in 1971. Known on Wall Street as the "Bond King", his nose for the fixed income market has turned Pimco into the world's largest bond investor with $1.9 trillion of assets under management at the end of 2013. Pimco's success has done wonders for Allianz. In the past decade alone, the contribution of the asset management business to the German group's operating profit has climbed almost four-fold to 3.2 billion euros, representing a third of total core earnings. Allianz now sells nearly two-thirds of its investment products to North American clients. But over the past year Gross has shown signs of losing his touch. In a difficult year for bond markets, Gross's flagship Pimco Total Return Fund lost 1.9 percent in 2013, its first annual loss since 1999 and worst performance since 1994, according to Morningstar. In the first three months of this year, Pimco had $15.45 billion of outflows from U.S. open-end mutual funds. Compounding the performance worries have been a series of media reports pointing to a rift between Gross and El-Erian and raising questions about the founder's management style. Allianz scrambled into damage-control mode following El-Erian's departure, with board members trying to reassure the group's top institutional owners, several shareholders said. Pimco has played down the rift and Hodge says the firm had been discussing giving bigger roles to senior portfolio managers long before El-Erian left. The new structure was unveiled to counter two chief concerns of investors: firstly, that Pimco had become a "one man show" with no natural successors to Gross, and secondly that it was too focused on flagging fixed income. The moves have convinced some. Small Stockholm-based investor Labrusca Family Office saw the turmoil as a chance to buy into Allianz, whose shares are down over 7 percent since El-Erian's departure was announced on January 21. The STOXX Europe 600 insurance index &lt;.SXIP&gt; is down 1 percent in the same period. Sell-side analysts are also bullish on the shares. According to a Reuters poll, 23 out of 35 analysts still rate Allianz stock a "buy" or "strong buy". Allianz, which bought Pimco for $3.3 billion in 2000, says its oversight is rigorous and appropriate. Sources close to the company say Thomas Naumann, the finance chief of its asset management arm, travels to Newport Beach twice a month. The sources describe governance and talent development at Pimco as a "core activity" for Allianz. EQUITIES PUSH But some investors are still not satisfied. The first top-10 investor pointed to reports that Gross has been taking home as much as $200 million per year, saying shareholders were "not willing to accept this any more". A longtime trustee for Pimco funds mentioned the $200 million figure in an interview last month. Allianz does not make Gross's compensation public and Pimco said it did not want to comment on the matter. Another concern, expressed by several shareholders, was that Pimco has been slow to adjust its product offering in anticipation of what some believe could be a lasting bear market for bonds. Pimco started a push into equities over four years ago and brought in Virginie Maisonneuve - now one of the six deputy CIOs - from Schroders &lt;SDR.L&gt; in January to serve as global head of equities. But it has resisted big acquisitions to bolster the business, choosing to build it up organically instead. "We are taking the right steps in our equity business," Hodge told Reuters, saying Pimco wanted to avoid compromising on quality by moving too fast. Allianz CEO Michael Dieckmann admitted in February that Pimco's equities build-up had been slow, but made clear this was not a criticism. "Pimco doesn't need to make acquisitions," he said. (Additional reporting by Tom Atkins in Frankfurt and Jennifer Ablan in New York; Writing by Noah Barkin; Editing by Janet McBride) FREE AppDownload
Its Jobs Day, and official expectations are for a reading of 200K new jobs in March. But optimism is building that the number could be higher than that — perhaps significantly. @fullcarry on Twitter — who is an absolute must follow if you're on there — has put together a list of 10 reasons to expect a monster number today. Here they are: 10. Gallup's unemployment rate fell substantially between Feb and March. 9. Auto sales in March exceeded a 16 million annual rate. 8. ISM non-manufacturing's employment index made a huge recovery from Feb's below 50 reading. 7. Payroll tax withholding were running 8% higher this March vs March of last year. 6. Four week average of initial claims in March were close to the lowest of the recovery. 5. Yes, of course, weather payback will be a big factor. 4. Rasmussen's employment index reaches 6 year high. 3. Gallup job creation index reaches multi-month highs. 2. My bum of a nephew finally lands a job. And finally the number one reason to expect a blowout payroll number tomorrow is that we deserve it after a brutal Winter. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsGood morning and Happy Jobs Day! At 8:30 AM ET today we the March Non-Farm Payrolls report, and this time they might be pretty interesting. The official consensus is for a reading of 200K new jobs at a 6.6% unemployment rate, but expectations of a big number are building. This is due to a combination of factors like the end of the hard winter and strong datapoints from car sales and the employment sub-index of the ISM services report. In the meantime, markets are very quiet (not much action anywhere) and will likely stay that way until the number. FREE AppDownload
