REUTERS/Issei Kato/FilesEmployees of the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) look at a monitor at the bourse at the TSE in Tokyo March 3, 2014. SYDNEY (Reuters) - Asian shares nudged higher on Tuesday, tracking rallies in the United States and Europe as investors seemed to put aside geopolitical concerns, at least for the moment. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan &lt;.MIAPJ0000PUS&gt; added 0.4 percent after jumping 1.5 percent on Monday. Japan's Topix &lt;.TOPX&gt; rose 0.4 percent, while the Nikkei &lt;.N225&gt; firmed 0.2 percent. Australia's main index &lt;.AXJO&gt; was one of the major gainers, jumping 1.3 percent in the wake of strong data on business activity and home prices. Singapore's Straits Times Index &lt;.FTSTI&gt; ticked higher after the city-state reported annualised economic growth of 0.1 percent in the second quarter when analysts had expected a slight contraction. Strength in the financial sector helped offset sluggish manufacturing activity. There was also promising news on global trade with the Philippines enjoying its fastest export growth in six months in June. European markets were expected to open a shade softer on Tuesday with financial spreadbetters tipping falls of between 0.1 percent and 0.2 percent for the FTSE 100 &lt;.FTSE&gt;, DAX &lt;.GDAXI&gt; and CAC 40 &lt;.FCHI&gt;. The better mood came even though NATO chief Anders Fogh Rasmussen warned of a "high probability" that Russia, using the guise of a humanitarian mission, could intervene militarily in Ukraine. A Russian convoy of 280 trucks carrying humanitarian aid for Ukraine set off on Tuesday. Investors also monitored Iraq, where the United States recently began air strikes targeting Islamic State fighters marching on the country's Kurdish capital. None of this seemed to faze Wall Street, where the Dow &lt;.DJI&gt; rose 0.10 percent on Monday, while the S&amp;P 500 &lt;.SPX&gt; gained 0.28 percent and the Nasdaq &lt;.IXIC&gt; 0.70 percent. Shares of Kinder Morgan Inc &lt;KMI.N&gt;, the biggest U.S. pipeline company, jumped 9 percent on news it would put all its publicly traded units under one roof in a $70 billion deal. Yet there was enough of a safe-haven bid to keep Treasuries underpinned with yields on U.S. 10-year paper &lt;US10YT=RR&gt; at 2.433 percent, not far from last week's 14-month lows. Major currencies were fenced in narrow ranges, with the U.S. dollar index a shade firmer at 81.537 &lt;.DXY&gt; after drifting in a 82 tick-range on Monday, a far cry from Friday's 336 tick-range. The dollar bought 102.27 yen, off Friday's low of 101.51, while the euro fetched 136.80 yen, still well off a trough of 135.73 plumbed on Friday. Geopolitical concerns and sanctions against Russia will probably be reflected in a closely watched survey on German morale due later in the day, analysts at BNP Paribas said. "We expect the headline expectations measure to fall to its lowest levels since the immediate aftermath of the EUR crisis in early 2013," they wrote in a note to clients. Such an outcome might keep the euro under pressure. The common currency last traded at $1.3373, still struggling after hitting a nine-month low of $1.3333 a few days ago. In commodities, oil prices remained in a rut amid plentiful supply with Brent not far from its recent trough of $104.07. Brent crude futures &lt;LCOc1&gt; eased 37 cents to $104.31 a barrel, while U.S. crude &lt;CLc1&gt; lost 34 cents to $97.74 per barrel. Spot gold &lt;XAU=&gt; was little changed at $1,307.90 an ounce.  (Editing by Richard Borsuk &amp; Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of General Motors logo outside its headquarters at the Renaissance Center in DetroitBy Jessica Dye NEW YORK (Reuters) - Lawyers from across the United States gathered in Manhattan Monday to jockey for leadership roles in litigation against General Motors  over a faulty ignition switch that has prompted the recall of millions of vehicles. Nearly 40 lawyers waited for hours to make four-minute pitches to U.S. District Judge Jesse Furman, who is overseeing the cases, during a marathon hearing in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. Numerous other lawyers have submitted written applications for one of 15 lead spots in the litigation, which so far consists of 109 cases involving claims over personal injuries and diminished vehicle value related to the recall. Since February, GM has recalled 2.6 million vehicles over problems with the ignition switch, and has since recalled millions more with other possible defects. Some well-known lawyers were among those making their cases Monday, including David Boies, a high-profile litigator who has handled marquee same-sex marriage and antitrust cases, and Joseph Rice, who has represented plaintiffs in mass litigation over asbestos, tobacco and the 2010 BP oil spill. Boies, who is applying to serve as one of three lead counsel or alternatively on the 10-member executive committee, said his national profile and his firm's resources would give plaintiffs an edge in court. “This is an important case, a high-profile case, and you need the very best lawyers,” he told Furman. “This is not a time for false modesty.” The lawyers Furman appoints will be expected to devote substantial time and resources to litigation efforts up front, in hopes of recovering a sizable share of legal fees from any eventual settlement or judgment. Also seeking top roles Monday were a number of lawyers who led litigation against Toyota Motor Corp over acceleration issues starting in 2010. Furman has appointed Steve Berman, Elizabeth Cabraser and Mark Robinson, who helped spearhead those cases, to serve as temporary lead counsel in the GM litigation. Furman cautioned that the current assignments did not guarantee them a future role. Berman said the Toyota litigation would be a valuable road map for plaintiffs suing GM. Toyota settled economic-loss claims stemming from the acceleration litigation in 2012 in a deal valued at $1.6 billion. “I spent two and a half years of my life dealing with the issues (in Toyota) that we’ll deal with here,” he told Furman. Furman said he planned to make the appointments by the end of the week.  (Reporting by Jessica Dye; Editing by Ted Botha and David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
Elon Musk, CEO of Tesla Motors, told the Guardian last year: “The lessons of history would suggest that civilizations move in cycles. You can track that back quite far—the Babylonians, the Sumerians, followed by the Egyptians, the Romans, China. We're obviously in a very upward cycle right now and hopefully that remains the case.” Similarly, financial markets are influenced by relatively predictable cycles, a lesson we at U.S. Global Investors rely on to help us manage expectations and be effective stewards of your money. This is a theme I’ve frequently written about and discussed in investor presentations, one of which, “Anticipate Before You Participate,” is a classic that I often use to remind investors of these timeless principles. Precedent plays a big role in our decision-making process just as it does in our day-to-day lives. I don’t know about you, but I know not to wait until the rains have flooded the streets ankle-deep before I buy an umbrella. A keen awareness of the ebbs and flows of historical and socioeconomic conditions, on both the macro and micro scales, allows our investment management strategy to be more proactive than reactive. Although reacting to sudden and unexpected developments is often necessary—Russia is a good example—our team tries to mitigate their impact on our funds by leveraging our knowledge of the complex interplay and overlap of important cycles, from the short-term to very long-term. Weather - A Cycle in One Season Just as the moon’s gravitational pull changes the ocean tides, so too does the weather, both good and bad, influence the behavior of the market. Case in point: a strong link exists between El Niño, the weather pattern, and global asset prices. Steady rains are good for Brazilian coffee output, for example, but bad for the Chilean metals industry. The reason for this is, when the rain is heaviest, access to mountainous mining regions is blocked. Here in the U.S., an unusually brutal winter at the beginning of this year put a damper on consumer spending. Sales were pummeled, as many consumers, especially in the Northeast, were disinclined to shop after spending their days shoveling bucketsful of snow off their front lawns. The ISM Manufacturing Index in January closed at a weak 51.3, below economists’ expectations of 56.0. Car sales were way down. On the bright side, stock trading tends to be more spirited on sunny days than cloudy days. In a thought-provoking paper titled “Reassessment of the Weather Effect: Stock Prices and Wall Street Weather,” University of California-Berkeley student Mitra Akhatari finds a significant correlation between sunshine in New York City and a bump in stock prices. If it is the case that people tend to evaluate future prospects more optimistically when they are in a good mood than when they are in a bad mood… then sunnier days are associated with investors being more willing to take on risky investments. The reverse also seems to be the case, according to Akhatari. On overcast days, investors’ less-than-peachy mood invariably leads to uninspired trading. Or even calamity, as was the rare case on the morning of October 29, 1929, Black Tuesday, when autumn clouds blotted out the sun’s warmth and light. This doesn’t mean that every time the sky turns gray, the market suffers. Some people are better than others at separating their emotions from their investment decisions. In any case, let’s all take a moment to appreciate the fact that the U.S.’s main stock exchange is not located in Seattle. Gold Seasonal Trends - One Year Cycle Gold is a classic example of a commodity that rotates through seasonal cycles year after year. I’ve written at length on the ways in which gold behaves in response to international festivals and holidays such as the Chinese New Year and Ramadan. You can look back five, 15 and 30 years to spot the patterns the precious metal dependably follows, reaching annual highs late in the year during Diwali and Christmas when gold jewelry demand spikes. Another cyclical indicator—or theory, I should say—we use to track the performance of gold is mean reversion. Mean reversion is the idea that, eventually, a commodity will revert back to its historic value, whether it’s currently sailing in the stratosphere or crawling through the weeds. What goes up must come down, as they say, and we saw this play out last year when gold plunged 28 percent after an exhilarating years-long bull run. Although many traders let go of their bullion and gold stocks, we suspected,based on historical data, that the metal would soon rebound, which it did. Presidential Election Cycles - Four to Eight Years At U.S. Global we like to say that government policy is a precursor to change, and no person in the nation has more control over policy than the president. The decisions he makes and actions he takes have far-reaching consequences in markets both domestic and international, more so than perhaps even he can anticipate. The current occupant of the White House, Barack Obama, began his presidency by injecting $700 billion into the economy, a move whose success experts are still debating. We’ve also seen several rounds of quantitative easing (QE) to loosen money and facilitate loan-taking. Largely as a result of these policies, the S&amp;P 500 Index during both of Obama’s terms has performed above the average four-year presidential cycle. Early last month, furthermore, the Dow Jones Industrial Average hit a record high of 17,000. Just over the horizon are midterm elections, a time when the market historically becomes bullish. According to the most recent Stock Trader’s Almanac: An impressive 2.7% has been the average gain during the eight trading days surrounding midterm election days since 1934. This is equivalent to roughly 52 Dow points per day at present levels. There was only one losing period in 1994 when the Republicans took control of both the House and the Senate for the first time in 40 years. Lifecycle of a Mine - Multiple Years Not only is it important for us to understand the seasonality of the commodity itself, it’s equally important to be aware of the stages a mine must proceed through before it becomes operational. As I write in The Goldwatcher: Demystifying Gold Investing: We strongly believe in using cycles to better manage risks and expectations, and we see this as a way for others to manage their emotions when it comes to investing. Knowing where a company is on the mine lifecycle can be a tremendous asset to an investor in gold equities who seeks to minimize risk and optimize performance. It’s one more tool the investor can use to try to manage volatility and his own market expectations. Take a look at the graphic below. Years can and do divide the time when a mine is discovered and when production begins. It’s imperative to know which stage of its lifecycle it’s in to make a better-informed decision on whether to invest, withdraw or wait.  When a mine is first discovered, excitement raises the price of the stock. This is when investment is most speculative since only one in 2,000 companies finds at least a 1 million-ounce deposit. Once reality sets in and miners are faced with the notion that the metal or mineral—assuming there is any—probably won’t be exhumed for some time, prices tumble. Years later, after production finally begins, stocks see another uptick. This is when the equity is at its lowest risk factor. To manage risk and expectations, it’s critical for us to know where we are in the cycle of the mine. We prefer to confirm this in person, and so we often visit projects in locations such as Colombia, Panama, West Africa and others. Most recently, I had the pleasure of dropping by Gold Mountain Mining Corp.’s Elk Project in British Columbia, which I wrote about last week. Part II (Coming Soon) In the second part of this series on managing expectations, I’ll discuss other tools and theories our investment team uses on a daily basis such as oscillators and sigma moves. Our models include fundamental value drivers and proprietary statistical algorithms to manage short-term volatility for one day to 60 trading days. Look for it later this week! All opinions expressed and data provided are subject to change without notice. Some of these opinions may not be appropriate to every investor. By clicking the link(s) above, you will be directed to a third-party website(s). U.S. Global Investors does not endorse all information supplied by this/these website(s) and is not responsible for its/their content. The S&amp;P 500 Stock Index is a widely recognized capitalization-weighted index of 500 common stock prices in U.S. companies. The ISM manufacturing composite index is a diffusion index calculated from five of the eight sub-components of a monthly survey of purchasing managers at roughly 300 manufacturing firms from 21 industries in all 50 states. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is a price-weighted average of 30 blue chip stocks that are generally leaders in their industry. Fund portfolios are actively managed, and holdings may change daily. Holdings are reported as of the most recent quarter-end. The following securities mentioned in the article were held by one or more of U.S. Global Investors Funds as of 6/30/2014: Tesla Motors, Inc. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Konstantin ChernichkinUnused petrol bombs are collected before being disposed, at Independence Square in KievFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  Why Relative Value is Trumping Risk Aversion (Blackrock Blog) The stock market has seen a "less-than-positive" tone in the last few weeks because of rising geopolitical tensions. But, trading has not been "all about" risk aversion — and stocks have not followed the expected "risk-off" plan. Safe haven assets have struggled while higher-risk assets like frontier and emerging market stocks have done relatively well. "The seeming disconnect between investor angst — evidenced by a sideways stock market, rising volatility and selling of high yield bonds — and a proclivity for more exotic markets can be reconciled fairly simply: investors have a newfound interest in relative value," writes Russ Koesterich at BlackRock Blog. "At a time when most of the major asset classes look somewhere between fully valued and expensive, investors are being forced to look further afield in search of value and yield. …EM Asia is illustrative of this point. This market segment has benefited from stabilization in the Chinese economy and positive election results in India, but there is another reason investors have been attracted to this part of the world: It’s relatively cheap. While EM Asia valuations—as measured by the MSCI Emerging Markets Asia Index— are still above the bargain basement levels seen in 2008, they trade at a 30% discount to developed markets." A Third Opportunity Has Emerged For Bond Investors Looking To Boost Returns (Alliance Bernstein) "Bond investors have historically enhanced their returns by taking on more interest-rate or credit risk. Today, a third opportunity is emerging for investors: the liquidity premium," writes Douglas Peebles at AllianceBernstein Blog. Illiquid investment opportunities are having a moment. They're growing, and "provide investors with a healthy yield premium in return for giving up the ability to quickly convert their assets to cash," according to  Peebles. A couple of catalysts are creating illiquid investment opportunities. First, there's credit disintermediation. "Both midsized and large banks have faced more cost pressure or capital requirements, making it challenging for them to participate in some asset classes. As banks step back from certain lending activities, borrowers still need access to credit, opening the door to “private credit” opportunities for nonbank lenders. We’ve seen this trend accelerating for banks in the US and Europe in the past few years, in the aftermath of the financial crisis. " Credit disintermediation has created illiquidity premiums in the form of middle-market loans and risk sharing transactions. Declining secondary-market liquidity is acting as another catalyst. "Regulatory changes have affected banks and their fixed-income market-making abilities, reducing liquidity in secondary markets. Continued anxiety from the global financial crisis has also reduced liquidity for some fixed-income securities in secondary markets." Closed-end funds and municipal bonds are two areas where investors are being paid for declining secondary-market liquidity. Voices: TIm McGrath, On Confronting Clients Who Spend Carelessly (Wall Street Journal) Often high net worth clients can be irresponsible with how they spend their money. But advisors need to be willing to be the bad guy writes Tim McGrath, managing partner at Riverpoint Wealth Management, in a WSJ column. "Unlike a person who is suddenly flush with cash and goes on a spending spree, this behavior tends to take root over time. Advisers have to take note and take action, because that kind of spending can ultimately threaten to derail the client's financial planning." Clients run into problems when "major, one time purchases" suddenly become "become regular expenses. It could be vacations for extended family members, gifts or loans to friends, or helping out children with the purchase of a home. These expenses start compounding very quickly and can ultimately jeopardize the ability of a client--even one in a great financial situation--to maintain his or her standard of living through retirement." It's hard for people to change the habits that they have grown comfortable with, and that's why it's important to be a "proactive as an adviser and to monitor and address spending with clients regularly".  It's important to confront clients about habits if they are becoming an issue. JP Morgan's Fund Choices for Clients Said Under SEC Review (Bloomberg) The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is reviewing whether conflicts of interest led JPMorgan Chase to sell certain investment products to individual clients. The review is at an early stage. And the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency is reported to have conducted a similar probe into whether JPMorgan led private-banking clients into its own products. "We manage a variety of portfolios based on a client’s investment objectives, and the mix of solutions varies, is dynamic and transparent," Darin Oduyoye, a JPMorgan spokesman told Michael Moore at Bloomberg. "Our clients have countless options in selecting financial providers. They come to JPMorgan because of our long-term investments track record and the depth and breadth of our platform." Smart Beta Is Just A Form Of Active Management (Vanguard) "When we hear about alternatively weighted indexes including those that are marketed under the tag name, Smart Beta, we like to remind advisors and institutional investors that we simply think that these are forms of active management," says Jim Rowley at Vanguard. "And I say that for two reasons. Number one is the weighting mechanism used by alternatively weighted indexes. If you think about a cap-weighted index, a cap-weighted index is the consensus valuation of all investors and all factors all around the globe." "...The second way that we think about this is if you read about the strategy or the intent of these alternatively weighted indexes, many of them are designed or they have put forth the strategy that they’re trying to outperform an index. And quite simply, in investing, if we think about a strategy that is designed to outperform a certain index, that would be another form of active management." FREE AppDownload
The origins of Islam trace back to Saudi Arabia, a place where the world’s Muslims seek spiritual refuge in the holy cities of Mecca and Medina. The country has been considered by many as impenetrable in the past due to its harsh, dry desert with extreme temperatures. The investment climate may become more hospitable though to foreign investors after the Kingdom’s financial regulator, the Riyadh-based Capital Market Authority (CMA), announced foreigners would be able to buy and sell shares on Saudi Arabia’s Tawadul All Share Index starting in 2015. Until this landmark decision is implemented, investors from outside the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) now have only indirect market access – namely through swaps and exchange traded funds. Saudi Arabia’s accession into the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 2005 helped lay the groundwork for opening the Kingdom to wider foreign investment, encouraging the Saudi Arabian government to continue engaging in economic reform and diversification. From my point of view, the CMA’s announcement is a game-changer for the region. The US$745-billion1 Saudi economy dwarfs many others in the region, and its market is well-capitalized and mature. Trading liquidity in the Saudi Arabia stock market is the highest in the region, and Saudi Arabia has the strongest pipeline of initial public offerings (IPOs) in the region as well. Some pundits are speculating that Saudi Arabia could receive an emerging market classification from index provider MSCI within the next two years, leapfrogging the “frontier” classification and likely drawing more investor interest as a result. Saudi Arabia is the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ (OPEC) biggest producer. Oil has been a huge driver of government revenues as well as GDP. However, in our view the Saudi economy has more to offer investors than just its oil riches. We have found the management of many Saudi companies to be impressive, and not only within the energy sector. We favor banks as well as consumer-oriented companies, like retailing or food and beverage, that cater not only to the Saudi market but also the wider Middle East market. There are a lot of potential opportunities in Saudi Arabia, in our view, and we are eagerly seeking them out. Important for us—particularly in light of the market excitement the news of potentially allowing foreign direct investment generated—is finding shares at attractive prices too. Over the medium term, we would expect foreign investor interest to steadily rise in preparation for Saudi Arabia’s likely eventual inclusion in global indices. However, there could be some speculative excess akin to what we saw in the United Arab Emirates and Qatar when MSCI announced these markets would be moved up from frontier to emerging market status, both of which subsequently experienced sharp corrections. Hopefully, the Saudis will work to help prevent that type of market volatility with the proper framework for investors and perhaps a more gradual foreign integration. Saudi Arabia saw a strong current account and fiscal surplus in 2013 as a result of high oil revenues – both production and price-led.There has been robust government spending in recent years on a number of projects to diversify its economy and to encourage economic growth.In our view,Saudi Arabia is in a strong position to continue to spend, with foreign exchange reserves currently above 100% of GDP.2 The country’s growth rate has been impressive as well; GDP growth has averaged above 6% in the past four years, although for 2014 the pace of growth looks to be a little slower. 3 Challenges in Saudi Arabia While the economic and investment climate appear positive to us, a few clouds hang over the country, particularly the high rate of youth unemployment. The median age of Saudi Arabia’s population is 26.44, and as of 2010, there were roughly 8.5 million expatriate workers in the Saudi economy, nearly a third of the total population.5 You can thus see why employment has been an important issue among its locals. Officials have been attempting to address the challenge; the government has helped promote job training and education by launching the King Abdallah University of Science and Technology. In my chats over the past couple years with Saudi officials, it seems there has been an increased focus on training and hiring efforts aimed at its large youth population, which generally lack the education and technical skills the private sector needs. In the short- to medium-term, a mismatch between the output of the national education system and the requirements of the private sector could continue. Overall, we think more private sector employment is needed; two-thirds of Saudi citizens work in the public sector. And, in our view, the youth need more incentive and training to work in a wider variety of skilled jobs the economy needs. Interestingly, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia’s Ministry of Labor recently announced it has teamed up with Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to launch an online education venture in the country this fall. The effort includes a unique pilot program directed to Saudi women, youth, the disabled and citizens in rural communities, who have often had less access to education and employment opportunities. Of course, geopolitical concerns are an ongoing issue in the region. The Arab Spring, a pressure point for some countries in the Middle East, saw limited calls for protests in Saudi Arabia. This was partly due to the strengthening economy and overall rise in living standards, along with the popularity of the King and his reforms. More recent tensions in the region so far haven’t had a significant impact on Saudi Arabia’s economy, other than perhaps creating some oil price volatility. We view Saudi Arabia a good proxy for growth in the Gulf region, and think increased investor interest in Saudi Arabia is likely to have a spillover effect. We are optimistic more foreign investment could bring long-term benefits to the country and region, and are excited about the potential opportunities this watershed event could provide us as investors.   Dr. Mobius’s comments, opinions and analyses are for informational purposes only and should not be considered individual investment advice or recommendations to invest in any security or to adopt any investment strategy. Because market and economic conditions are subject to rapid change, comments, opinions and analyses are rendered as of the date of the posting and may change without notice. The material is not intended as a complete analysis of every material fact regarding any country, region, market, industry, investment or strategy. Important Legal Information  All investments involve risks, including possible loss of principal. Foreign securities involve special risks, including currency fluctuations and economic and political uncertainties. Investments in emerging markets, of which frontier markets are a subset, involve heightened risks related to the same factors, in addition to those associated with these markets’ smaller size, lesser liquidity and lack of established legal, political, business and social frameworks to support securities markets. Because these frameworks are typically even less developed in frontier markets, as well as various factors including the increased potential for extreme price volatility, illiquidity, trade barriers and exchange controls, the risks associated with emerging markets are magnified in frontier markets. Currency rates may fluctuate significantly over short periods of time and can reduce returns. 1. Source: WorldBank, 2013, GDP (current US$). 2. Source: IMF World Economic Outlook database, April 2014. © by International Monetary Fund. All rights reserved. 3. Ibid. 4. Source: CIA the World Factbook, 2014 est. 5. Source: Information Office of the Royal Embassy of Saudi Arabia in Washington, DC, 2010 Census. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his “Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets” blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including “Trading with China,” “The Investor’s Guide to Emerging Markets,” “Mobius on Emerging Markets,” “Passport to Profits,” “Equities—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” “Mutual Funds—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” ”The Little Book of Emerging Markets,” and “Mark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/James FassingerView of the interior of the Tesla Model S at the North American International Auto Show in Detroit, Michigan January 15, 2013.DETROIT (Reuters) - Consumer Reports, which last year gave top marks to electric carmaker Tesla Motors Inc's &lt;tsla.o&gt; Model S sedan, now says the car it owns has had "more than its share of problems." While the car has impressed staff at the influential U.S. consumer magazine with its "smoothness, effortless glide and cleaver, elegant simplicity," there have been many quirks that might dampen consumers' experiences, Consumer Reports said in a statement on Monday. Consumer Reports, which anonymously buys the vehicles it tests from auto dealerships, said the Model S it owns now has traveled nearly 16,000 miles. Its 2013 Model S was purchased for $89,650 in January of that year. "Just before the car went in for its annual service, at a little over 12,000 miles, the center screen went blank, eliminating access to just about every function of the car," the magazine said in its statement. Tesla fixed the issues on the magazine's Model S under warranty. These included a "hard reset" to restore the car's functions after its center screen went blank and problems with the automatic retracting door handles, which were occasionally reluctant to emerge. Last November, Consumer Reports ranked the Model S best among all cars on the market in its annual survey of vehicles on U.S. roads. And in May 2013, the magazine awarded the Tesla sedan 99 out of a possible 100, one of the best ratings it has ever given an automobile. The base version of the Model S starts at around $70,000. Tesla officials were not immediately available to comment on Consumer Reports' statement. Tesla has been one of the hottest U.S. stocks this year, more than doubling its value. It closed on Monday at $259.32 per share, up 4.5 percent. Tesla's only production model is the Model S, but next spring it plans to introduce a crossover electric car, the Model X.   (Reporting by Bernie Woodall. Editing by Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rupak De Chowdhuri A gas station attendant looks at an Indian rupee.American venture capital in Bitcoin continues to cross the ocean.  On Monday, Barry Silbert's Bitcoin Opportunity Corp. announced it had invested $250,000 in Bangalore-based Unocoin. The firm is less than a year old but already claims the title as the largest and fastest-growing bitcoin company in India. It does a little bit of everything, including trading, storage, and merchant processing.  Year to date, India ranks 18th worldwide for number of overall raw Bitcoin protocol downloads according to SourceForge, more than many European countries, including Romania, which was just highlighted by Reuters as a Bitcoin hub. India's central bank has clarified that it would allow Bitcoin businesses to continue operating while warning of the cyptocurrency's risks to average investors.  Bitcoin evangelists have long said the opportunity in places like India that are home to large populations of "unbanked" citizens is enormous. In a joint statement, BOC and Unocoin noted 40% of India's urban population and 61% of its rural population lacks access to basic financial services. At the same time, remittances in India totaled over $70 billion in 2013. "Bitcoin technology has the potential to provide sustainable solutions and smarter financial options to all sectors of India," the firms said.  Of the nine investments Silbert's BOC has made in 2014, four have been in overseas companies. In July, a report from CoinDesk showed the absolute number of firms receiving investment in Q2 was now split 60-40between America and the rest of the world. Coindesk When we talked with Silbert last month about his investment in a Swedish-based Bitcoin firm, he insisted America would continue to lead the world as the top destination for Bitcoin investing. And we aren't suggesting there isn't significant interest here. But the needs of Bitcoin users in America are different from those elsewhere. And the U.S. (and Canada) continue to trail other countries in terms of Bitcoin interest: Here's the year-to-date chart in Google Trends for "Bitcoin" — a crude measure to be sure but nonetheless telling: Google Trends And the Unocoin investment marks the largest known to date in India’s Bitcoin space, as well as one of the largest investments made by BOC outside of United States. So it seems reasonable to say the makings of a trend are emerging. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Boeing logo is seen on a Boeing 787 Dreamliner airplane in Long BeachSEATTLE (Reuters) - The head of Boeing Co's  defense, space and security business said on Monday that nearly two-thirds of the $6 billion in cost cutting the unit is undertaking will come from savings found in its network of suppliers. "Out of the $6 billion, probably 66 percent of that will come out of the supply chain, maybe more," Chris Chadwick, chief executive of Boeing Defense, Space and Security, said in response to Reuters following a speech sponsored by the Seattle Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce. Boeing already has cut $4 billion in costs from the defense unit, which has annual sales of $33 billion. The company has said it plans to cut an additional $2 billion. "There continues to be tremendous opportunity in the supply chain for efficiency, cost reduction," Chadwick said. There are also opportunities for growth with suppliers. "What we've found is those supplier who lean forward from a cost perspective, we do partner with them for the long term." Boeing's defense business, like competitors such as Lockheed Martin Corp , General Dynamics Corp  and Raytheon Co , has been under pressure to cut costs as U.S. defense spending has fallen in recent years due to budget cutting. Chadwick said the U.S. budget has fallen by about 24 percent due to sequestration, or automatic spending cuts. Chadwick said Boeing is not alone in expecting the budget to continue to decline. And he said the company has an advantage over competitors by using successful commercial airplane models to produce military products, such as the P-8 Poseidon plane, based on the 737, and the KC-46 aerial tanker, based on the 767. Chadwick said among the opportunities in the U.S. defense sector, where U.S. spending is equal to about the 10 next-largest national defense budgets combined, are military customers still using equipment based on the Boeing 707 jetliner, that are old and will need to be replaced. Boeing is investing in research and development to meet those needs, he said.  (Reporting by Alwyn Scott; Editing by Jonathan Oatis) FREE AppDownload
Grand Canyon National ParkA new construction project being proposed for the eastern rim of the Grand Canyon has conservationists, members of the Navajo tribe, and nature lovers across the United States up in arms. The project, known as the Grand Canyon Escalade, would create a large tourist area on the rim of the Canyon, complete with shops, restaurants, and hotels. It would also boast a tramway that would take visitors on a gondola ride to the canyon floor. There, they would access a riverwalk with an ampitheatre and another restaurant. Proponents of the development argue that the project would allow visitors unprecedented access to the Canyon basin, an area they argue is currently inaccessible to less adventuresome tourists. They also say it will create more jobs and revenue for the Navajo people, who control the 420 acres and who are desperate for an economic boost.  Protestors of the plans, however, say the project would be built on sacred lands and endanger the resources and ecosystem of the fragile Canyon. They also say that the Grand Canyon is a national treasure, one which would be irrevocably blighted by the construction of such a tourist complex.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTaxi drives past Standard Chartered's main branch in Hong KongBy Brett Wolf (Reuters) - Standard Chartered Plc will soon begin sifting through a mountain of data for signs of possible money laundering or other criminal activity, as a result of faults in the software critical to its anti-money laundering compliance program, two sources with knowledge of the matter said. The outcome of this review could affect any penalties regulators impose on the bank for anti-money laundering lapses. Because Standard Chartered  clears about two million U.S. dollar transactions each month, the process of poring through the data will be "a huge piece of work" that could take months, said one of the sources. Both sources spoke on condition of anonymity as they are not authorized to speak publicly about the matter.As previously reported by Reuters, holes in the British bank's anti-money laundering net were uncovered by a monitor imposed by the New York Department of Financial Services (DFS) in 2012. At that time, DFS and federal authorities took separate actions against Standard Chartered, fining the bank a total of $667 million for violating U.S. sanctions by hiding transactions linked to Iran. As a result of the latest problem, Standard Chartered is once again under scrutiny from the DFS, the bank disclosed when announcing its earnings last week. A penalty of more than $100 million and an extension of the monitorship is possible beyond its anticipated end in early 2015, another source said. A spokeswoman for Standard Chartered declined to comment. A spokesman for the DFS also declined to comment. The findings of Standard Chartered's pending transaction review, known as a "look back," could affect the severity of any penalties imposed by DFS, one of the sources with knowledge of the issue said. The more crime proceeds that flowed through the bank, the more it likely will have to pay, the source said. The bank has done extensive planning for the review with help from an external consultant and is coordinating with the DFS to ensure it approves of the plan, one of the sources said. The bank installed the problematic transaction-monitoring software system late last decade. It was supposed to flag suspect transactions, and then bank compliance staff could see whether there were signs of possible criminal activity that needed to be reported to authorities, said the other source. However, the so-called "detection scenarios" that tell the system what activity to flag for human review were not properly calibrated, the source said.  UNTESTED SCENARIOS Although just "a handful" of the monitoring system's dozens of detection scenarios were flawed, the errors went uncorrected for years because the bank failed to properly test them, the source said. While the bank thought certain transaction patterns were under automated scrutiny, they were not. "Nobody knew, people assumed it was being tested," the source said. No one to date has been fired or disciplined over the matter, the source said. Most of the scenarios have been corrected and efforts are underway to fix the others, the source said, adding that the bank plans to move to a new transaction-monitoring system early next year. (Reporting by Brett Wolf of the Compliance Complete service of Thomson Reuters Accelus in St. Louis)  (Editing by Randall Mikkelsen and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eduardo MunozInflation can be a very challenging subject. In our discussions with investors about the economy, we find more diverse opinions on the outlook for inflation than around any other topic. Unfortunately, research on the subject often raises more questions than it answers. For example, academics find that inflation is difficult to forecast, that the statistical properties of inflation can change over time, that inflation expectations differ by demographic groups, and that firms take into account morale and other behavioral factors when setting wages. Of course, quantitative easing also exposed some wide differences of opinion on the drivers of inflation among mainstream economists. Even so, we are not entirely in the dark about how and why inflation moves around. There are basically four things that matter empirically: (1) commodity prices, (2) spare capacity, (3) changes in exchange rates, and (4) monetary policy, broadly defined. These four variables go a long way to explaining both the level of inflation we see today, as well as the major differences across countries, and can serve as a guide to where inflation might be heading in the future. The simplest input is obviously commodity prices. Changes in commodity prices due to supply shocks affect inflation everywhere, although to varying degrees due to firms’ price setting behavior, government regulations or subsidies, and differences in the household consumption basket. Commodity prices have been pretty tame lately, which is one important factor behind modest inflation over the last two years (Exhibit 1). Exhibit 1: Tame commodity prices help explain lower inflation IMF, Haver Analytics We can also see reasonably clear evidence that spare capacity in many countries has weighed on inflation. For example, the average level of inflation in developed market economies has fallen from around 2% in 2010 to 0.8% as of the first quarter of this year (unweighted average of gross domestic product (GDP) deflator inflation for the countries shown in the next chart). We think this slowing very likely reflects the second eurozone recession and the resulting increase in slack in labor and product markets. This point comes across most clearly when looking at the differences in inflation across countries. Exhibit 2 shows inflation in the GDP price index for 25 developed market economies plus the eurozone as of Q1 2014 (the latest available observation in most cases). While there are a few caveats and special factors, inflation is generally higher in countries with smaller output gaps (e.g., Norway, New Zealand and Germany) and lower in countries with bigger output gaps (e.g., Cyprus, Greece, Ireland and Spain). These data are entirely consistent with the historical evidence that weakness in the real economy puts downward pressure on inflation. Exhibit 2: Lower inflation in economies with weaker real activity Haver Analytics In emerging market (EM) economies — where growth has held up better in recent years — we have not seen this same broad-based slowing in inflation. Instead, recent differences in inflation across EM have more to do with exchange rates and monetary policy (Exhibit 3). For example, inflation has picked up in Turkey, where the exchange rate depreciated sharply last year. Other differences are explained by monetary policy in some shape or form, such as the central bank’s choice of inflation target, the exchange rate regime and/or quasi-fiscal operations by the central bank (as in Venezuela). Haver Analytics In our view, therefore, current inflation rates are well explained by the usual suspects: commodity prices, spare capacity, changes in exchange rates and monetary policy. These same factors will likely drive inflation in the year ahead, with important implications for bond markets. Aside from uncertainty around commodity prices, we should expect higher inflation in economies approaching or already beyond full employment, especially where inflation rates are currently below the central bank’s target (as in the United States). In these markets rising inflation could be a headwind for high-quality fixed income returns. In contrast, in markets with prospects for a trend lower in inflation expectations (e.g. certain pockets of EM), falling yield levels could still boost excess returns over time. FREE AppDownload
While Russia could face more severe sanctions as the situation in East Ukraine remains tense, Morgan Stanley analysts rule out diamonds from any future bans on Russian exports. In a new research note, Morgan Stanley analysts led by Joel Crane discuss various aspects Russian mineral exports. They point out that Russian state-owned diamond mining giant ALROSA "is the largest producer of diamonds globally (followed by De Beers) and the second largest in terms of sales," as can be seen in this chart: Morgan Stanley Most of ALROSA's export market is in Belgium, and so the Russian company's interaction with Europe and the West is a big part of its activities: Morgan Stanley Given this, Morgan Stanley points out that: The U.S. consumes more than a third of the world's diamonds, and so a more comprehensive ban on Russian exports that would include diamonds, and thus drive up prices, is not something that is likely to happen: Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe facade of the U.S. Federal Reserve building is reflected on wet marble during the early morning hours in WashingtonBy Greg Roumeliotis (Reuters) - The private equity industry's lobbying group met officials from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve last week to address concerns over a crackdown on junk-rated loans, people familiar with the matter said on Monday. The private meeting - the first between the Private Equity Growth Capital Council (PEGCC) and the U.S. regulators over the issue - underscores many buyout firms' reliance on leveraged loans for outsized returns in their debt-fueled acquisitions of companies. It also highlights the willingness of the OCC and the Fed to engage with parties they do not regulate. Private equity firms are typically regulated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The PEGCC sought and received assurances from the OCC and the Fed that regulators have not been targeting the private equity industry in their efforts to prevent excesses in leveraged lending, the sources said. The OCC and the Fed also told the PEGCC that they were not being inflexible in their application of the lending guidance, which was issued last year, the sources said. The regulators are also working on providing follow-up guidance to banks, the sources added. Among those attending the meeting were Martin Pfinsgraff, senior deputy comptroller for large-bank supervision at the OCC, and Anna Lee Hewko, a deputy associate director at the Fed's division of banking supervision and regulation, the sources said. The sources asked not to be identified because the meeting was private. The PEGCC and the Fed declined to comment, while an OCC spokesman did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The meeting comes as the leveraged finance industry awaits the outcome of an annual review of banks' loan books that took place earlier this summer. Regulators have warned that underwriting standards have deteriorated, though bankers say they expect the review's findings to be in line with last year's. Lending for U.S. leveraged buyouts totaled $46.9 billion in the first half of 2014. It reached $90.5 billion in 2013, the highest level since 2007, according to Thomson Reuters Loan Pricing Corp. A small number of PEGCC's members, such as Blackstone Group LP  and KKR &amp; Co LP , are alternative asset managers that have direct lending divisions which could benefit from a regulatory crackdown on the leveraged lending businesses of Wall Street banks. Asked about the impact of the leveraged lending guidance on KKR, Scott Nuttall, head of KKR's global capital and asset management group, told analysts last month the firm stood to benefit on the credit investment side while it would withstand any retrenchment of banks on the private equity side. "We have direct relationships with a number of institutions around the world, some of which, frankly, are not subject to these potential limitations ... Our private credit business should benefit if the Fed guidelines get adhered to once people figure out what all of the rules actually mean in practice," Nuttall said.  (Reporting by Greg Roumeliotis in New York; editing by Matthew Lewis) FREE AppDownload
Nassim Taleb, the noted author who has written best-selling titles including "The Black Swan" and "Antifragile," just tweeted a photo of an index card outlining his "sins to remember." The card, which appears to be a quote from Taleb himself, reads: "Muscles without strength, friendship without trust, opinion without risk, change without aesthetics, age without values, food without nourishment, power without fairness, facts without rigor, degrees without erudition, militarism without fortitude, progress without civilization, complication without depth, fluency without content; these are the sins to remember." Taleb is big on short, aphoristic statements. He even published a whole book of aphorisms, "The Bed of Procrustes." Here's another one to file away.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerStudents of Shaolin Tagou Martial Arts School are suspended in mid-air as they practice in a rehearsal for a stunt performance which is part of the opening ceremony of the 2014 Nanjing Youth Olympic Games, at a stadium in Nanjing, Jiangsu province.Stocks finished higher on Monday, with the Nasdaq logging the day's largest gains. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Monday: 1. The top story on Monday was a massive merger in the pipeline space, with Kinder Morgan consolidating its four publicly-traded subsidiaries into one company. Kinder Morgan said the deal will create the largest energy infrastructure company in North America and the third largest energy company overall with an estimated enterprise value of $140 billion. Following the announcement, shares of each of Kinder Morgan's publicly traded unit, Kinder Morgan, Kinder Morgan Management, Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, and El Paso Pipeline Partners, all surged. BI's Rob Wile has a full breakdown of the deal here.  2. Also in mergers and acquisitions, Chiquita Brands stock gained 30% after the company received a $13 per share joint takeover offer from agricultural giant Cutrale and Brazilian billionaire Joseph Safra. In March, Chiquita agreed to be acquired by Irish produce distributor Fyffes in a deal that was expected to close before the end of 2014.  3. Dean Foods shares lost 4% after the milk giant reported a wider than expected quarterly loss and saying, "the balance of the year appears rocky." The company said that the average price for raw milk costs in the second quarter was up 6% over the prior year and up 31% from a year ago, and Dean Foods said for the remainder of the year it will deal, "with a continued unpredictable and volatile dairy commodity environment." 4. Tekmira Pharmaceuticals gained another 15%, adding to its 45% gains from Friday, after the FDA last Thursday modified the full clinical hold it had placed on the company's investigational TKM-Ebola drug. This action made the use of TKM-Ebola in patients infected with Ebola potentially possible.  5. Over the weekend, Barron's Bill Alpert said that shares of Zillow, which in late July announced a deal to acquire online real estate rival Trulia for $3.5 billion, could fall 50%. Shares of both Zillow and Trulia were down 2.5% on Monday. 6. Biopharmaceutical company MannKind gained 3.5% after announcing a development agreement with Sanofi for its inhaled insulin treatment Afrezza. In pre-market trade, MannKind shares were up as much as 30%, but the stock, which is among the most heavily shorted names in the market, pared most all of these gains during the session.  7. Goldman Sachs' David Kostin noted that in the second quarter, S&amp;P 500 profit margins expanded to a new historical high of 9.1%. Additionally, Kostin noted that analysts' expectations are for margins to average 9.3% for 2014 and then jump to 10% in 2015.  Don't Miss: The Man Who Made $1.5 Billion In A Morning Did It By Outsmarting All Of Wall Street » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Richard Carson Rich Kinder.On Sunday evening, giant Houston-based pipeline operator Kinder Morgan announced it was buying up its three independently traded partnerships for an all-in price of $71 billion, the second-largest energy transaction ever. Investors loved the deal: Shares in all four Kinder units were rallying Monday morning. CEO Rich Kinder has made $1.5 billion today alone on the increase in his shares. The reason: Kinder Morgan has been under pressure to lower its cost of capital. The announcement instantly blows up those concerns by creating an entirely new corporate structure. It's also a sign that Rich Kinder remains one of the canniest players in the energy world.   "One thing Rich Kinder has shown an absolute brilliance for is reinventing his company to drive growth going forward," Morningstar energy analyst Jason Stevens told Business Insider on Monday. "It's very much unique to their current structure." The Kinder Morgan family comprises Kinder Morgan Inc., a general partner, and three master limited partnerships. MLPs are publicly traded firms that pay no corporate income taxes, which allows investors to avoid getting levied twice on dividends.  Most MLPs have two obligations: paying out to investors, and paying what amounts to a performance fee to a general partner. This gives the GP an incentive to grow returns to the MLP's investors, so that returns to the GP investors can also grow. But the "fees" to the GP increase with each increase in distribution to MLP investors. Morgan Stanley says that in many cases they can reach of 50% of the MLP's total cash payout. And one morning, KMP investors woke up to find themselves paying out close to a 50% fee to KMI. As Tudor, Pickering, Holt &amp; Co.'s Bradley Olsen's wrote in a note last month, KMP now sits on a $17 billion queue of "great near-term and medium-term projects" including Marcellus gas and Canadian crude pipelines, as well as Mexican gas exports.   But the returns on those projects were getting shifted to KMI. "We assume that KMP’s backlog will generate unlevered [returns] of 14%, in-line with historical averages. With the current GP burden sucking up 45% of total cash payout, a staggering $16B in projects will generate only ~$0.40-0.50/unit of [cash] at KMP, or 8% LP accretion."  Hedgeye Risk Management analyst Kevin Kaiser highlighted this issue last September, calling it "an enormous transfer of wealth from KMP [the MLP] to KMI [the GP]." Morningstar's Stevens estimates that KMP's all-in cost of capital was hitting as much as 12%, endangering returns to both KMP and KMI investors.   "[For KMP] to do deals or put forward new capital growth — that's a pretty high hurdle rate," Stevens said.  So, everyone began forecasting KMP would someday "take out" KMI, the parent, eliminating its albatross.  But no one expected the opposite would occur: that KMI would simply capitalize on its own lopsided cash receipts.  "The deal announced Sunday turns this on its head and takes advantage of the relative discount the market had assigned to KMP and other Kinder family master limited partnerships," Stevens said in a note.  Here's what the Kinder family looks like under one roof: Kinder Morgan via RBC Kinder itself had once raised the prospect of a merger. In response to a February Barron's article from Andrew Bary restating the KMP payout balancing act problem, the firm released a six-page response that addressed the prospect of consolidation: Q: Would KMI ever merge with KMP the way Enterprise Products merged with its GP? As was mentioned in our analyst day materials, KMP would consider other options if we get to a point where we cannot deliver attractive returns to LP investors. However, we do not believe we are at that point. We would point out that KMP has a highly attractive total return prospect, with a current yield of nearly 7% and a target distribution growth rate of 5% for the next three years supported by organic expansion capex projects of nearly $14 billion that we expect to place in service over the next 5 years. Since February, the Kinder family has rallied about 8%. And on Sunday, Kinder decided that now is the time to get even more appealing. In a note this morning, RBC capital management said the move comes a bit earlier than they'd foreseen, but that it will allow the Kinder Morgan empire to cut its capital costs by nearly half by knocking out those cash distribution obligations. Meanwhile, everyone is crediting Rich Kinder's maneuvering. Forbes's Chris Helman points out that he "has shown an uncanny ability to move ahead of the market," citing things like his early purchase of Enron's pipeline business before the energy giant collapsed; a 2006 leveraged buyout of Kinder Morgan Inc. for $21 billion, and re-IPO'ing in 2011. "Why should this be any different?" Helman says. And that seems to be the big takeaway from the deal: Kinder Morgans problems were real, but anyone who believed they wouldn't be able to find a way out of it was setting themselves up for some pain. There may be implications for other MLP players. Some analysts, including Morningstar's Stevens, are saying that at least one other firm, Energy Transfer Partners, is in a similar position that Kinder was in, and that there may be others. "There is a very strong argument that general partners get too much of the incremental cash flow, and these mergers help to address the problem," SeekingAlpha user "SeekingProfits," wrote on that site. Meanwhile, once the deal goes through (which won't happen until Q4), Kinder Morgan will likely be in a position to take on even more projects, including other MLPs. RCB notes KMI now expects about $20 billion of tax savings over the next decade and a half. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersU.S. postal service trucks sit parked at the post office in Del Mar, CaliforniaBy Elvina Nawaguna WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Postal Service continued to bleed money during its second quarter, despite an increase in package revenues and an emergency price hike that took effect in January. The agency said on Monday that it lost $2 billion from April to June, compared with a net loss of $740 million in the same period last year, and a $1.9 billion loss in its first quarter. An increase in its shipping and package business helped the agency see a 2 percent rise from last year in its total operating revenues to $16.5 billion. USPS has focused on its shipping and package business and expanded to Sunday package delivery as more people shop online and need a service to deliver their purchases. Shipping and package revenue jumped 6.6 percent, compared with the same period last year. The volume of its most profitable product, first-class mail, fell 1.4 percent as more people communicate electronically, but the temporary rate increase helped offset the losses by bringing a 3.2 percent rise in revenues for that product. The rate increase is a temporary measure to mitigate the effects of the recession. The jump in losses was largely due to a $1.5 billion increase in operating expenses as a result of workers compensation payments, the agency said. USPS blames much of its financial troubles on a 2006 mandate to stow away billions of dollars for its future retirees' healthcare. The Postal Service already defaulted on three of its payments into the fund and does not expect to make the next $5.7 billion installment due September 30. Because of continued losses, the agency also said, it has not been able to update its fleet. "To continue to provide world-class service and remain competitive, we must invest up to $10 billion to replace our aging vehicle fleet, purchase additional package-sorting equipment, and make necessary upgrades to our infrastructure," said USPS Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President Joseph Corbett. USPS and postal unions have so far failed to coax U.S. lawmakers to allow it to modify its business, including eliminating or modifying the future retirees' health fund. The agency also wants Congress to authorize it to limit door-to-door delivery and to cut Saturday mail delivery, but those plans have been blocked by some unions and lawmakers who say it would hurt their communities. Despite the red ink, the latest announcement showed an improvement from 2012 when USPS lost $15.9 billion that year. Many in the industry point to these improvements as a sign that the agency does not need to make the drastic service cuts it has sought. "Given the positive mail trends, it would be irresponsible to degrade services to Americans and their businesses, which would drive away mail – and revenue – and stop the postal turnaround in its tracks," Fredric Rolando, president of the National Association of Letter Carriers, said in a statement.  (Reporting by Elvina Nawaguna; Editing by Karey Van Hall and Jonathan Oatis) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWoman buys bitcoins at one of Southern California's first two bitcoin-to-cash ATMs which began operating today, in Venice, Los AngelesBy Douwe Miedema WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Virtual currencies such as bitcoin are the "Wild West" of financial products because of risks including huge swings in exchange rates, the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau said on Monday. "Virtual currencies are not backed by any government or central bank, and at this point consumers are stepping into the Wild West when they engage in the market," CFPB Director Richard Cordray said in a statement. In a consumer advisory, the agency noted that bitcoin fell as much 80 percent against the U.S. dollar in a single day this year, exposing investors to massive potential losses. Other risks include the fact that online or virtual currencies have been a target for hackers while some virtual currency companies have provided little help in cases where funds were lost or stolen, the CFPB said. Bitcoin, the best-known virtual currency, started circulating in 2009. Incidents that have brought the currency under new regulatory scrutiny include the failure of Mt. Gox, a Tokyo-based exchange that filed for bankruptcy after losing an estimated $650 million worth of customer bitcoins. Unlike conventional money, bitcoin is generated by computers and is independent of control or backing by any government. That is something its proponents like, but it has led to calls for more oversight and guidance on issues including U.S. tax treatment. The U.S. Treasury Department's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network last year classified administrators or exchangers of bitcoin as money transmitters, which puts them under the remit of state regulators. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, a federal regulator, is studying whether it has jurisdiction, given that some firms are considering offering bitcoin derivatives. And the U.S. Internal Revenue Service has designated bitcoin and other virtual currencies as property, not currency, for tax purposes, a decision that made it less attractive to for investors to hold much value in bitcoins. But the CFPB, a federal agency set up after the 2007-09 financial crisis, had so far been mum on the issue, causing a rebuke from the Government Accountability Office, which said last month the CFPB should step up its role in overseeing bitcoin. The GAO's report had been requested by Senator Tom Carper, a Democrat from Delaware, and the head of the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs. Carper is conducting his own investigation into bitcoin.   (Reporting by Douwe Miedema; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and Tom Brown) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe head offices of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. are seen in Laval, QuebecNEW YORK (Reuters) - ValueAct Capital, a top shareholder in Valeant Pharmaceuticals, supports the company's standalone plan and does not believe the Canadian drugmaker has to buy Botox-maker Allergan, the investor told Reuters on Monday. “A year on the sidelines waiting for (Allergan) to do a scorched earth sort of defense is a huge cost to Valeant," ValueAct Chief Executive Jeff Ubben told Reuters in an interview on Monday. ValueAct has a roughly 5.7 percent stake in Valeant, making it the company's third-largest investor, according to Thomson Reuters data as of early May. ValueAct likes a potential combination between Valeant and its takeover target Allergan, but said a drawn-out bidding war for the Botox maker might be too distracting. The comments from Ubben also come alongside a release from Allergan that said the company recieved a second request from the FTC for additional information related to Valeant's unsolicited takeover proposal for the company.   CNBC's David Faber also reported earlier Monday that ValueAct, which also counts Microsoft among its largest holdings, recently amassed a nearly $1 billion stake in 21st Century Fox.  In afternoon trade on Monday, shares of Allergan were down about 2% and Valeant shares were down 1.7%.  FREE AppDownload
There are a number of demographic changes happening in America that have serious implications for our near and long term economic growth. In a new research note, Credit Suisse's Amlan Roy, Angela Hsieh and Ric Deverell make a demographic argument that current mainstream projections of U.S. GDP growth in the next few years are overly pessimistic.  Much of the pessimism about future growth stems from the aging of the U.S. population: the baby boomers, the largest generation in American history, are beginning to retire, leading to much lower labor force participation rates among adults, a trend that began even before the Great Recession and has accelerated since: Credit SuisseCredit Suisse suggests a different way of looking at this situation. They point out that the Bureau of Labor Statistics projects that there will be increasing numbers of older Americans continuing to work past traditional retirement ages. This chart indicates that older Americans will be more willing to work through their sixties and into their seventies in 2022 than in 2012: Credit SuisseCredit Suisse argues that this change in the behavior of older Americans, and the increased desire of younger Americans to go to college, means that our current definition of "working age adults" is obsolete. If we change our definition of working age adults from the current standard of people between the ages of 15 and 64 to people between 20 and 69, growth rates in the working age population suddenly become far more promising over the rest of this decade: Credit SuisseCredit Suisse uses these demographic projections, along with some optimistic but historically reasonable assumptions about labor utilization growth and productivity growth, to come up with a projection for GDP growth over the next five years that looks a lot better than more conventional models: For more details, check out the Credit Suisse note here. FREE AppDownload
YouTubeCooking with fresh beef will always be the ultimate way to prepare a steak, but it turns out that using a frozen steak is your next-best option. That’s according to Dan Souza, a Cook’s Illustrated senior editor. He experimented in America’s Test Kitchen (first spotted by Food Republic) with eight strip loin steaks cut in half. He froze the steaks, then thawed a half of each steak in the fridge over night, keeping the other side frozen. Souza then seared both sets of steaks in a hot skillet for 90 seconds on both sides before transferring them to a 275-degree oven until they were cooked to medium rare (125 degrees). His team discovered that the frozen steak not only lost less moisture and cooked more evenly, but it also tasted better than its thawed counterpart. The frozen steak had a much thinner band of overcooked meat (known as a “gray band”) surrounding the pink interior than the thawed beef, too. YouTubeThe frozen steaks also browned nearly as fast as the thawed steaks in the skillet, though they did take 18 to 20 minutes of cooking time in the oven (compared with 10 to 15 for the thawed steaks). Of course to get these results, the steaks need to be frozen properly. Simply storing them in a bag can cause ice or moisture to form on the steak, which can in turn cause flare-ups when you’re searing the steak in oil.  Instead, Souza said the best way to freeze the steaks was to set them on a baking sheet lined with parchment. Once they’re fully frozen, wrap each steak in plastic wrap and put them into a plastic bag. Watch the video below to see how frozen steak trumps thawed steak.  Full instructions below (recipe here): Heat skillet filled 1/8 inch deep with oil Sear until browned (90 seconds per side)  Transfer to wire rack set in rimmed baking sheet Cook in 275-degree oven until desired doneness (18 to 20 minutes for a 1-inch-thick steak) FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Kevin DooleyHave you been following the news in the financial markets lately? If so, then you’ve probably read stories like this one that say the stock market is due to have a correction or crash anytime now. I get it. Headlines generate excitement, fear, and traffic for the websites. However, these stories predicting a long term bull market, an impending correction or stock market crash should largely be ignored. The problem is, I constantly see stories predicting the next market downturn. I bet you do, too. Unfortunately, most people don’t stick to their investment plans and eventually give in and listen to these crazy people. Why? Because if you hear something enough, you begin to believe it is true. So, why do these stories not matter? Why should you ignore them? If stocks plummeted tomorrow, it wouldn’t affect my strategy — and it shouldn’t affect your strategy, either. Why? Because you should have your investments set up in a way that matches your risk tolerance. If you’d sell your investments if your portfolio went down 50%, then your investments shouldn’t be 100% in stocks. Think of it this way, if you had only 50% of your portfolio in stocks and stocks went down 50%, your total portfolio would only go down 25% if nothing else changed. If you only had 10% of your portfolio in stocks, your total portfolio would only go down 5%. However, if you had 100% of your portfolio in stocks, your total portfolio would drop by the whole 50%. You should have your investment portfolio set up so that you won’t likely experience losses that go beyond the pain point that would make you deviate from your investment strategy. If you do this, then short term stock drops won’t matter. All that matters is the long run. I’m a long term investor and my retirement is decades away. While no one can predict the future, history has shown that whenever stock prices as a investment class go down, they eventually recover over time. Due to the fact I’m a long term investor, I have options short term investors don’t. Whenever stocks drop I look at it as an opportunity to buy more shares on sale because in the long run, stocks have always recovered. Why would long term investors be scared of a drop in stock prices when in reality stocks are just on sale? In fact, I might even put more money in the stock market if it drops 50% in a short period of time. The real reason why what the stock market does in the short run is irrelevant is the fact that you shouldn’t have your short term money invested in the stock market. We do know that historically that the stock market can crash and a significant amount of wealth can disappear in a short time period. For that reason, never lock up money in the stock market you can’t afford to wait to withdraw. If you keep enough money in cash or other less volatile assets to hold you over until the stock market recovers, it will be much easier to ride the roller coaster. Since I already have my short term money, my emergency fund, I don’t have to worry about my long term investments. If they crash 50% tomorrow, I wouldn’t care, and you shouldn’t either. Have the right asset allocation and stick to your investment strategy and you’ll be doing much better than the average American investor. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn oil pump of CUPET is pictured, near the coast, on the outskirts of HavanaBy Marc Frank HAVANA (Reuters) - Cuba has shifted its focus away from offshore oil, concentrating on renewable energy and improving output from onshore wells due to a lack of interest by foreign companies for further deepwater exploration, sources close to the industry say. With so much oil readily available around the world, oil companies including those from allies China and Russia see little incentive in drilling off the Caribbean island, delaying the Cuban dream of oil wealth that could inject vigor into its socialist revolution. With the U.S. trade embargo of Cuba further complicating drilling plans, the country is seeking investors in renewable energy such as biomass and wind while attempting to increase output from existing onshore and shallow water wells. Russia's state-run Rosneft and the China National Petroleum Company (CNPC) separately agreed last month to help Communist-run Cuba extract more oil along the traditional northwest heavy oil belt, but did not sign on to deepwater exploration. The northwest heavy oil belt is a 200-mile (320-km) stretch of the northern coast from Havana to Villa Clara and reaching up to 3 miles (5 km) offshore. It produces poor quality oil that meets 40 percent of the country’s needs. Rosneft and CNPC will also support the horizontal drilling of new wells from shore and join Canadian firm Sherritt International  and another Russian state-run oil company, Zarubezhneft, which are already carrying out similar work. Cuba had hoped Russia and China, whose presidents visited in July, would explore deepwater offshore fields that it says may hold 20 billion barrels of oil and end its dependence on socialist ally Venezuela. Venezuela sends 115,000 barrels of oil per day to Cuba under favorable terms. "The Cubans have stopped talking about offshore oil exploration in the state-run media and in private appear more interested in new recovery methods for existing wells, biogas projects and windmill farms," a European diplomat said. Three deepwater wells drilled in 2012 by Spanish, Norwegian, Indian, Malaysian, Russian and Venezuelan firms came up dry. All but the Norwegian state firm Statoil ASA and Venezuelan state oil company PDVSA have pulled out, and those companies are inactive. Future drilling has been postponed for the foreseeable future.  A BIG GAMBLE Difficult geology from hard rock encountered while sinking the wells, alternative prospects elsewhere and U.S. sanctions that require oil rigs to carry less than 10 percent U.S. technology are discouraging further drilling, according to Western diplomats. "Exploration is not a one-shot deal, but in Cuba due to many factors it is. Drilling is like playing once at a roulette wheel with $100 million chips," said a diplomat whose country was involved in exploration. Jorge Pinon, an expert on Cuban oil at the Center for Energy and Environmental Policy at the University of Texas in Austin, said, "They are shifting their focus and efforts to the known coastal reservoirs rather than on the unknown offshore deepwater reservoirs." Cuba's heavy crude fields have a recovery factor of about  10 percent (10 barrels for every 100 barrels in a well), due to the viscosity of the crude and the porosity of the rock formations from which it is extracted, Pinon said. "If successful, Cuba could increase its present recovery factor from 10 percent to maybe 17 to 20 percent adding an additional 12,000 to 15,000 barrels of new production if not more to their current level of approximately 50,000 barrels per day," Pinon said. Vice President and politburo member Marino Murillo told parliament in July that Cuba planned to invest $3.6 billion over the next 15 years in alternative energy, which is a priority for foreign investment. Murillo said 96 percent of energy generation came from oil and that the goal was to reduce that by 2030 to 76 percent, with the remainder coming from 19 bioelectricity plants attached to sugar mills, 13 wind parks and solar facilities. He did not mention deepwater oil exploration.  (Reporting by Marc Frank; Editing by Daniel Trotta and Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
New York sees plenty of eye-popping price tags on luxurious homes, from a record-busting $88 million penthouse condo sale at 15 Central Park West to $95 million listings like the 16-room penthouse at the Pierre Hotel. But as any homeowner knows, buying the property is only the beginning. Once a buyer is in, they have to shell out big bucks to maintain their palatial pads. Condo fees, taxes and, of course, the staff that keeps these properties in multimillion dollar shape can add up fast. This month, The Real Deal examined the ongoing costs for five pricey properties in the New York City area — running the gamut from penthouse condos to hotel co-ops to Hamptons’ horse farms. Below is a rundown. Meredith Galante/Business InsiderThe priciest unit at the luxury co-op residences atop Manhattan’s Pierre Hotel is late stock titan Martin Zweig’s former pad. The triplex, which takes up the entire 41st, 42nd and 43rd floors, is on the market for $95 million — down from an earlier ask of $125 million. If that isn’t enough to throw a buyer into sticker shock, the apartment, which features five master bedrooms and a 75-foot-long salon and dining area that occupies the original hotel’s ballroom, comes with maintenance charges of $42,720 per month, according to listings website StreetEasy. Those maintenance charges include a range of amenities at the hotel, along with the service of two full-time staff — a “houseboy and maid,” said Brenda Powers of Sotheby’s International Realty, who holds the listing along with partner Elizabeth Sample and fellow Sotheby’s broker Serena Boardman. “The setup at the Pierre is very interesting structure because the shareholders also own part of the hotel,” Powers explained. The Pierre, which includes 70 residences and just over 200 hotel rooms, is owned by a partnership comprised of all the shareholders of the co-op — that is to say, the residents who live there. The hotel rooms are then sublet to Taj Hotels, which operates and rents them. A $24 million mortgage on the building that the co-op owners are responsible for accounts for roughly half of the shareholders’ monthly charges. Real estate taxes are built into the mortgage payments, explained Brown Harris Stevens broker Martha Kramer, who has an $18.25 million listing for a three-bedroom apartment in the building. The monthly maintenance for that unit is $10,000, which pays for twice daily maid service, an additional “heavy cleaning” of the apartment once a month, as well as hotel discounts for guests and concierge services, including dog-walking. “I’ve even seen them walking cats,” Kramer said of the concierges. 15cpw.comNobody would expect buying an apartment at 15 Central Park West, the Robert A.M. Stern–designed tower that’s home to a slew of boldfaced names, to be cheap. Until the middle of last month, the priciest unit on the market in the building — where former Citigroup head Sanford Weill broke a record when he sold his penthouse to Russian billionaire Dmitry Rybolovlev in late 2011 for $88 million — was a $65 million, 6,000-square-foot, five-bedroom. (The apartment was temporarily taken off the market because it was rented, but it could still be sold while the tenant is in place.) The property was the only two-unit combination to be listed since the building launched. The 35th-floor unit has been gut renovated, has panoramic views in three directions and has its own elevator landing, according to the listing, which was held by BHS’ Paula Del Nunzio. Any buyer can expect to pay monthly common charges of $7,872, plus $10,273 in monthly taxes — for a total of $18,145 per month. That pays for more than just magnificent park views. In addition to the building’s daily upkeep and staff, the monthly maintenance covers the property’s many amenities such as the gym, movie theater, billiards room and, of course, restaurant. The 14,000-square-foot fitness center, managed by Wright Fit, has state-of-the-art machines, including a Power Plate, which vibrates to help develop muscle tone — a feature most public gyms don’t have, according to Core broker Emily Beare, who’s handled rentals and sales in the building. Meanwhile, the 75-foot lap pool, located in the fitness center, is lit with skylights from a reflecting pool on the floor above. And, the 20-seat movie theater is available for anything from kids’ parties to Super Bowl get-togethers to private movie screenings. In addition, the restaurant also caters private events hosted by residents in their homes, said Beare, who added that the restaurant prices are not over-the-top. “It’s not astronomical,” she said. “You’re not paying a premium for having it in your apartment building. The prices are in keeping with what a normal restaurant would be — it isn’t necessarily $100 per person.” The building also has a floor devoted to studio apartments, which owners can purchase for their staff. Those, of course, come with tacked-on common charges and taxes. Getty ImagesThe owner of Bridgehampton’s Two Trees Farm, Dumbo-based developer David Walentas, first put his famed 115-acre property on the market in 2010 for $95 million. He quickly reduced the price to $55 million, where it stood until a few weeks ago. Now Walentas has divided the property into several separate sites — two of which are up for sale, as TRD reported last month. Walentas, who has been trying to secure a zoning change to subdivide the property into 18 individual parcels, recently won final approval, the Corcoran Group’s Susan Breitenbach told TRD. One of the two listings is comprised of five of those 19 parcels and totals 12.2 acres of developable land. It’s listed for $25.9 million with Terry Cohen of Saunders &amp; Associates. Walentas has already started to build houses on the 13 yet-to-be-listed parcels, said Breitenbach, one of several brokers who previously listed the entire property. It was not immediately clear when those sites will be listed or at what stage in the development process. Meanwhile, the second listing is for the 65-acre horse farm, which is now on the market for $25 million. It includes the 2,500-square-foot main residence, a guest house, all three horse stables, two indoor equestrian areas, a pool, tennis court, staff housing and at least four other buildings to house maintenance equipment. Douglas Elliman’s Morgan White, who declined to comment, has the listing for that spread, which is protected as preserved farmland. To keep up the farm property, the buyer will have to consider a staff of at least 15 to maintain the fields and stables, plus an estimated $1,000 to $3,000 per year to maintain the tennis court, sources said. And on average, tennis courts must be resurfaced every seven years to the tune of between $4,100 and $5,500. However, because the property is a farm, some costs would likely be tax-deductible. Paul Brennan, Douglas Elliman’s Hamptons regional manager, who is not affiliated with the property, said it’s hard to gauge how much it would cost to foot the Two Trees’ annual bill. “That’s scary. I wouldn’t even want to,” he said of estimating the upkeep costs. “You have the farm maintenance costs, which aren’t cheap, but it’s just something that has to be done, and if you have things like a horse farm or grapes, they come under agriculture, and so you get a huge [tax] break.” Still, the taxes on the horse farm are $25,000 annually, according to listing information on Elliman’s website. Walentas declined to comment. REUTERS/Mike SegarThe priciest pad up for grabs at Extell Development’s One57, a $41 million condominium on the 62nd floor measuring just over 4,400 square feet, is actually not that outrageous on a monthly basis — relatively speaking, that is. The unit will cost its new owner just $7,095 in monthly common charges, and a little over $500 in monthly taxes, according to StreetEasy. The unusually low taxes for such a pricey property are thanks to a controversial 421a tax abatement passed in Albany last year. Still, despite those relatively low monthly fees, Extell estimates that the building will generate $8.25 million in its first year of operations, with the biggest chunk of that, over $7 million, coming from residential common charges, according to filings with the Attorney General’s office that TRD has cited in the past. The monthly fees cover the building’s plush amenities, including a private fitness center and yoga studio, an indoor pool with live music pumped in — under water — from nearby Carnegie Hall, private dining, a full catering kitchen and screening and performance rooms. The building has also earmarked $1.57 million for salaries, wages and benefits for its 18 employees, according to its filings. The building also projects that it will spend $2.5 million for heat and hot water annually, $1.43 million on electricity and nearly $1 million on “services and supplies.” Unlike other Manhattan condos with on-site hotels, however, residents are only charged for hotel services like massages if they use them. “I did not personally receive any pushback from my numerous customers regarding maintenance fees at all,” said Sotheby’s broker Nikki Field, who told TRD she has sold units to buyers in the building ranging from $8.9 million to $50 million. “The carrying costs are far lower than all the other in-the-ground competition. Most other hotel condos like the Sherry Netherland or the Pierre have exorbitant monthlies due to the included hotel services, whether the owner uses them or not.” Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesThe sprawling nine-bedroom, 10,000-square-foot Tudor-style mansion at 16 Gin Lane, which hedge-funder Scott Bommer purchased from shoe mogul Vince Camuto last year for $75 million, just sold again for an undisclosed amount. But there is little doubt that the new owner will have to dig deep to cover the monthly and annual nut for the 7.5-acre Southampton oceanfront property. In total, big estates like this one on Gin Lane can run their owners $250,000 a year or more in maintenance costs, according Elliman’s Brennan, who was not involved in the recent sales of the property but is familiar with it. That’s on top of the nearly $115,000 in annual taxes, according to the property’s most recent listing. Corcoran’s Tim Davis, the listing agent, did not return calls for comment. Perhaps the most expensive feature to maintain will be the formal gardens, which require a team of full-time workers, according to Brennan. The estate, of course, also has a tennis court and pool. “I’d hate to think what that costs year over year,” Brennan said of maintaining the property. “The hedges alone would be more than I make in a year.” The exact cost of maintaining the grounds and gardens depends on exactly what is planted. A rose or vegetable garden, for instance, is more labor-intensive and therefore more costly, said Elizabeth Lear, co-owner of Southampton-based luxury landscape design firm Lear Mahoney. “Some companies just do the general maintenance: hedges and lawns, fertilizing, spraying,” she said. “People who do specialty gardening generally charge an hourly rate, anywhere from $20 to $50 per hour, depending on who it is and where they are.” FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA broker at IG Index rests his face in his hands as he looks at his screens in the City of London LONDON (Reuters) - Regulatory pressure to undo the traditional way brokers sell research alongside share dealing is alarming traders in Europe, who fear a further drop in business and more cost-cutting in an already tough environment. At stake is the lucrative but opaque system under which fund managers pay brokers an all-in commission on every trade, charged to the fund's clients, which covers not only the execution of the deal but research and other services. Total spending is estimated at 2 billion pounds ($3.4 billion) in the UK and about $10 billion in the US. The asset managers are already reining in spending in the wake of new UK curbs on charging clients for research sometimes deemed "questionable" and company visits, traders say. A ban proposed by European markets watchdog ESMA on charging clients for research - though not yet final - is also seen eating into brokers' profits, pushing them to merge or cut costs. Advocates of new rules say such changes will lead to a healthier and more transparent financial market, though for the industry it means another hit to trading profits in a post-crisis world where bank risk-taking has been curbed and trading activity has yet to recover fully. "Brokers have already cut enormously, even the big ones, but equity markets have been difficult," said Neil Scarth, a principal at Frost Consulting. "We think that (new) research budgeting is going to cause them to cut further." Traders say the bundled commission system helps grease the wheels of equity trading and allows brokers to be more than just "dumb pipes" into the stock market, but critics argue that there is no price transparency for clients and that a culture of one-payment-fits-all has led to excess spending and little scrutiny. "In no other industry do you see such a bizarre way of delivering and paying for a service," said Richard Balarkas, consultant and former head of electronic trading at Credit Suisse. Both brokers and asset managers are likely to be under pressure to restructure operations or cut costs, analysts and investors say, as trading houses will find it much harder to fund large research desks while asset-management firms will struggle to persuade clients to pay much higher fees. "The trend is clearly going towards an increasing amount of research being paid for out of the asset manager's profits," said Arnaud Cosserat, fund manager at Comgest in Paris. "For us it will not dramatically change things as we have developed in-house research...But those in the middle will be squeezed." Industry associations are lobbying against the ESMA proposals and have warned that trading volumes and market stability are at risk; investment-fund body ICI Global said at a recent hearing that unbundling would be a "major challenge". "It is inevitable that there will be a decline in equity market volumes and a rise in price volatility (if unbundling goes ahead)," said Robert Buller, a spokesman for Paris-based broker Kepler Cheuvreux. "Less availability of research will mean less transparency on the correct pricing of stocks." Advocates of unbundling argue that fears are overdone, accusing the brokerage industry of supplying too much research of too little value that is paid for by the end client. One assessment from Morgan Stanley analysts is that the financial sector could cut up to $2 billion of excess costs from research. "The industry is spending more on research than investors are willing to pay for," they wrote in a 2014 report. While detractors say this will unfairly harm coverage of small companies, some see constant demand for good research. "Firms will have to make a choice as to whether they are a pure trading business or whether they are providing research... This will affect the big investment banks too," said Balarkas. "But quality ideas in overlooked companies will always be in demand." Traders worry that traditional relationships built up between broker and fund manager may fall apart without the incentive of access to research and other services. "It's a big preoccupation for us," said a London-based trader who declined to be named. "If clients have to pay a check to access bank research regardless of how much trading volume goes to that bank, why will they trade with that bank?" The head of trading at a global asset manager, who declined to be named, said he had already begun discussing with one of his brokers about how unbundling might lower trading business. For advocates of more transparency, this is an important step that will in the end benefit the client even if it skims some of the frothy profit from broker relationships. "Asset managers are going to have to choose the things they want and only buy those," said Frost Consulting's Scarth. "It will take probably some of the excess profitability out of the relationship." (Reporting by Lionel Laurent; Editing by Toby Chopra) FREE AppDownload
Profit margins continue to get fatter. Ever since the financial crisis, corporations have managed to deliver robust profit growth by offsetting the drag of weak sales growth with widening profit margins. These fatter profit margins come from cutting costs, which usually means getting more productivity out of a fewer number of workers. Some market watchers have warned that there aren't any more costs to be cut. But during their Q2 earnings announcements and conference calls, corporate America confirmed otherwise. "S&amp;P 500 margins expanded to a new historical high of 9.1%," said Goldman Sachs' David Kostin. "Margins exited the 50 bp range between 8.4% and 8.9% for the first time in four years. Trailing four-quarter margins expanded by 17 bp versus 1Q 2014. The Information Technology and Health Care sectors were the largest contributors to index level margin expansion. Margins declined for only one sector, Energy, while Consumer Discretionary margins were unchanged." And that's not all. Based on the analysts' forecasts of S&amp;P 500 companies, those profit margins will average 9.3% for the year and then jump t0 10.0% in 2015. Kostin, however, warns that those margin increases won't come easily. "Inflation remains a key concern for management," he wrote in an August 7 note. "Companies noted the potential long- term impact of rising costs on margins despite hedges that reduce the near-term impact on profits. Firms in the consumer sectors have already experienced inflationary pressures due to rising input costs. Conflicting opinions exist as to whether boosting prices on the consumer will help mitigate the effect of rising costs." We'll have to wait and see if and when margins turn. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
FlickrAnat R. Admati, an economist at Stanford University.Wall Street is freaking about Stanford economist Anat Admati's new book on the future of banking, saying "her ideas are wildly impractical, bad for the American economy and not to be taken seriously," in a New York Times piece by Binyamin Applebaum. But they are being taken seriously.  President Obama "invited Admati and five other economists to a private lunch to discuss their ideas." One of those other five economists was the notorious anti-Wall Streeter Paul Krugman. In "The Banker's New Clothes: What's Wrong With Banking and What to Do About It," Admati argues (along with coauthor Martin Hellwig) that because banks don't use their own money, they take greater risks and, as a result, "they keep crashing the economy."  Her solution is to "make banks behave more like other companies by forcing them to reduce sharply their reliance on borrowed money," according to The Times article. She says "large banks should be required to raise at least 30 percent of their funding in the form of equity" — which is "six times more than the current average for the largest American banks." This solution "would likely make the banking industry more stodgy and less profitable," according to the article. Stanley Fischer, vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, "praised her 'vigorous campaign,'" and Admati recently "testified for the first time before the Senate Banking Committee." However, both members of the banking industry and public officials are pushing back against her work. Even Fischer said that although her arguments "made sense in principle," the U.S. "was constrained by practicality." The government has already "required banks to reduce their reliance on borrowed money by increasing capital standards, which dictate the share of funding that must come from equity," and "officials worry that larger changes would hamstring American banks, driving businesses both to other kinds of domestic financial firms and to foreign rivals", according to The Times article. And banks warn that if the government raises more equity, then the "results would be higher interest rates, less lending and slower economic growth." So how do we strike a balance? FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsPrivate equity is staking out a very important position on Wall Street, with increasing fees and earnings, the Financial Times reported. According to the FT article, fees paid by private equity firms now make up 32% of U.S. investment banking fees. That's $6.5 billion out of $20.4 billion in total banking fees, according to Dealogic. FT also said this year is already outperforming the peak private equity frenzy of 2007, when private equity fees accounted for 24% of $36 billion in banking. Private equity accounted for 12% of fees in 2008, and 2-3% of fees in the 1990s. These firms have become investment banks' largest clients as they reap the benefits from the last buyout frenzy in 2007, now taking large companies public. Low interest rates from the Fed have also helped firms refinance previous deals. The Blackstone Group was Wall Street's highest fee-payer last year at $880 million. This year, The Carlyle Group is on track to become the next leader in fees, with $696 million up to July 25, the Financial Times said. Read the full story over at Financial Times &gt;&gt; FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderWe recently asked you to vote for the best places for guys to shop.   The results are in, and we're ready to reveal where men like to get their apparel and accessories.  Classic brands won out overall, though several newcomers in the e-commerce category had strong showings.  J. Crew and Banana Republic were clear winners in several categories, revealing the trend that people are willing to pay more for items they think are high-quality.  The popularity of e-commerce wasn't surprising considering 39% of readers said they preferred shopping online to any other venue.  More than 850 Business Insider readers took the survey. Of the respondents, 96% were male, and most were between the ages of 21 and 30 and lived in urban areas. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsChiquita Brands was up 30% on Monday after the banana giant received a $13 per share joint buyout offer from Cutrale Group and Safra Group. As of Friday's close, shares of Chiquita, which has a market cap of about $620 million, were down about 14% year-to-date. Cutrale is a juice and agribusiness giant that accounts for more than one-third of sales in the $5 billion orange juice market, and Safra is a group of businesses controlled by Brazilian billionaire Joseph Safra. In March of this year, Chiquita agreed to be acquired by Irish produce distributor Fyffes in deal expected to close before the end of this year.  In a letter sent to Chiquita's board, Cutrale and Safra said their offer is not subject to any financing transactions adding that: "We are prepared to complete our due diligence and negotiate a definitive agreement with your cooperation expeditiously in light of your proposed transaction with Fyffes. Based on our review of the terms of your transaction agreement with Fyffes, we are confident that we can reach a definitive agreement with you on substantially similar terms. We are also confident that with your timely engagement we will be in a position to consummate a Transaction before the end of this year. We do not believe there are regulatory obstacles which would prevent us from closing a Transaction in this time frame." You can read the full release from Cutrale and Safra here.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSign is pictured at vehicle entrance to Fox Studios in Los Angeles, California(Reuters) - Hedge fund ValueAct Capital LLC has taken a $1 billion stake in Rupert Murdoch-controlled film and TV company Twenty-First Century Fox Inc, CNBC reported. ValueAct built its position when Fox was seeking to buy Time Warner Inc, CNBC's David Faber said. Fox withdrew its $80 billion bid to buy Time Warner last week after being rebuffed by the owner of CNN, HBO and Warner Bros studios. Faber said ValueAct Chief Executive Jeffrey Ubben had told him he "loves" Fox's standalone plan. Fox shares were up 1 percent at $34.74 in early trading on the Nasdaq on Monday.  (Reporting by Soham Chatterjee in Bangalore; Editing by Ted Kerr) FREE AppDownload
Guy Montag/FlickrShares of the nation's largest milk processor and distributor Dean Foods were down 6% after reporting a wider than expected quarterly loss and saying, "the balance of the year appears rocky." In the second quarter, Dean Foods lost $0.14 per share, excluding certain items, compared to expectations for a loss of $0.06. Revenue in the quarter totaled $2.39 billion, better than the $2.32 billion expected by analysts.  "The second quarter was even more challenging than we had originally anticipated. This is by far the most difficult operating environment in the history of the company, reinforcing the importance of the initiatives we have underway," Gregg Tanner, Chief Executive Officer of Dean Foods, said in a press release.  Dean Foods also said that the cost of milk in the second quarter was the highest in U.S. dairy industry history. In the second quarter, Dean Foods said average Class I Mover, a measure of raw milk costs, was $23.66 per hundred-weight, up 31% from last year and up 6% from the first quarter. The company's outlook was also discouraging. Tanner said, "The balance of the year appears rocky, with a continued unpredictable and volatile dairy commodity environment. That makes it difficult to provide guidance beyond the immediate quarter." "While we hope to see a more positive environment later in the year, the uncertainty surrounding whether or when that will occur leads us to withdraw our full year guidance for the present time," Tanner added.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters Brazilian paper O Globo reports that the car was sold to a dealership for $1.1 million. The sticker price for one of these babies new is about $1.6 million. So Batista didn't get a bad deal, but maybe he didn't really enjoy the car while it was his, either, considering that it was sitting in his living room and was said to have a little over 1,200 miles on it when sold. Must have been nice while it lasted. The car was launched on the public in 2012. And, being the seventh-richest man in the world at the time, Brazilian mogul Batista bought himself a white one. Around the same time he told Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle that by 2015 he would be the richest man in the world, replacing Mexico's Carlos Slim. "Just give me time, let me work please," he told Ruhle. Unfortunately for Batista, he has since fallen on hard times. That same year the oil fields that his flagship company OGX was developing turned out to hold far less black gold underground than surveyors had anticipated. Batista had bet the farm though — the farm being his then-$35 billion holding company, EBX — on the success of these fields, particularly one he called "Hammerhead." Slowly his six-company empire started to crumble. Now creditors are calling in debts. For example, Mubadala Investment Corporation, the Abu Dhabi sovereign wealth fund that once made a $2 billion investment in Batista's companies, has been forced to restructure its debt and take a stake in his mining company. Give it one last good look and say goodbye. Reuters  FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThe US economy dipped during the first quarter, with real GDP falling by 2.1% (saar). It then bounced back by 4.0% during the second quarter. There has been much angst about the subpar pace of economic growth during the current expansion. However, much of that is attributable to weakness in government spending. That’s confirmed by last week’s productivity report showing that the real output of nonfarm business has been hovering around 3% y/y since Q2-2010, consistently higher than real GDP growth, which has been fluctuating around 2% over the same period, with the former up 2.9%, on average, while the latter is up 2.2%, on average. Over the past four quarters through Q2-2012, the former is up 3.2% while the latter is up 2.4%. During the latest quarter, real nonfarm business output jumped 5.2% (saar) after falling 2.4% during the first three months of the year. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Buying Dips. (1) Bad news bulls. (2) Lots of dips. (3) Dips to 50-dma have been good buying opportunities since early 2013. (4) Russian and other barbarians at the gates. (5) Bond market continues to ease as Fed moves towards tightening. (6) Nine reasons to be bullish on bonds. (7) Draghi wants euro to keep dipping. (8) Despite Q1 dip, US economy continues to grow with solid gains in business sector. (9) “The Hundred-Foot Journey” (+ +). (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesRich Kinder and his wife, Nancy.Billionaire energy tycoon Rich Kinder, the CEO/cofounder of the pipeline giant Kinder Morgan, made $1.5 billion on Monday morning, Bloomberg News reported. Kinder Morgan announced a $70 billion mega-deal that would streamline all of its publicly traded entities into one company. The stocks — Kinder Morgan, Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, El Paso Pipeline Partners, and Kinder Morgan Management — are all higher on the news. The general view is that investors like the streamlined corporate structure and that the company will now have a lower cost of capital. Kinder is the largest shareholder of Kinder Morgan (KMI). He owns 243.1 million shares, or about a 24% stake, according to data from Bloomberg News. Following the deal's announcement, Kinder Morgan's stock was up $6.23 at the opening bell, Bloomberg News reported. That means Kinder made an additional $1.5 billion on his stake.  Kinder accepts a $1 per year base salary. The 69-year-old Texan already has an estimated net worth of $10.1 billion, according to Forbes. Adding $1.5 billion to your net worth is not a bad way to start a Monday.  FREE AppDownload
WHO/Tarik Jasarevic/Handout via ReutersVolunteers prepare to remove the bodies of people who were suspected of contracting Ebola and died in the community in the village of Pendebu, north of Kenema, Sierra Leone, July 18, 2014.The Ebola trade is still intact. Shares of Tekmira Pharmaceuticals were up another 20% on Monday after gaining more than 45% on Friday after the FDA loosened a hold on the Ebola treatment in the company's development pipeline.  After closing on Thursday afternoon at $14.27 per share, Tekmira shares were trading north of $25 on Monday.  In Thursday evening's press release, Tekmira said, "the U.S. Food &amp; Drug Administration (FDA) has verbally confirmed they have modified the full clinical hold placed on the TKM-Ebola Investigational New Drug Application (IND) to a partial clinical hold. This action enables the potential use of TKM-Ebola in individuals infected with Ebola virus." Over the weekend, a report from The New York Times said that health officials in Nigeria have confirmed 10 cases and two deaths from Ebola. Nigeria is the continent's most populous country. Total deaths related to Ebola have now totaled more than 900.  The New York Times' editorial board also addressed the Ebola epidemic this weekend. The board wrote that after WHO director general Margaret Chan called this outbreak, "the largest, most severe, most complex outbreak" of the virus in its 40-year history: "And what has the world done in those 40 years to defend against the disease? Not much. Apart from inflicting a staggering human toll, the spread of the Ebola virus in West Africa has laid bare how unprepared the United States and other advanced countries are to protect and treat thousands of Africans whose lives are threatened by an extremely dangerous virus for which there is no cure." FREE AppDownload
Barron'sZillow shares could fall 50%, writes Bill Alpert in this week's Barron's cover story.  On July 28, Zillow announced a $3.5 billion merger with Trulia, its online real estate rival. The deal, which was comprised entirely of stock, sent the shares of both companies soaring, but since then Zillow has stumbled, falling about 12%, while Trulia is up 3%. In pre-market trade on Monday following Barron's story, Zillow shares were down 2% and Trulia shares were down more than 3%.  Alpert writes that Zillow bulls have dubbed the combination "Godzulia" on hopes the two sites will grab "a big piece of the $10 billion that realtors spend annually on advertising." Zillow CEO Spencer Rascoff told Barron's, "We have the audience. Eventually, the advertising dollars will follow the audience." Alpert writes, however, that: "But it's far from clear that the merged Zillow-Trulia will grow revenues enough to match their puffed-up market values. Even if the combined company (which will continue to operate both Websites) achieves the cost savings it expects and gets a growth-stock multiple on the resulting earnings, it would merit a market value of just a few billion dollars. Wall Street ultimately could downsize Zillow and Trulia's stock valuations by half." Alpert's report is well worth reading in full, and is about much more than a call that the stock will fall. Alpert dissects some of the challenges Zillow could face with regard to pricing power for its ads, as well Zillow's brokerage customers having their own "increasingly slick" websites. But the headline call that Zillow shares — which are among the most heavily shorted stocks in the market — are overvalued is likely to put the stock under pressure on Monday.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Richard Carson Richard D. Kinder, chairman and CEO of Kinder Morgan Energy Partners.On Sunday, pipeline operator Kinder Morgan announced a massive deal that would combine the company's four publicly traded entities into one company. Following the announcement, shares of the parent Kinder Morgan (KMI) were up 17%, Kinder Morgan Energy Partners (KMP) was up 24%, and Kinder Morgan Management (KMR) was up 29%, and El Paso Pipeline Partners (EPB) was up 27%. "All shareholders and unitholders of the Kinder Morgan family of companies will benefit as a result of this combination," Chairman and CEO Richard D. Kinder said in a press release. “Everyone will hold a single, publicly traded security — KMI — which will have a projected dividend of $2.00 in 2015, a 16 percent increase over the anticipated 2014 dividend of $1.72."  "This combined entity will be the largest energy infrastructure company in North America and the third-largest energy company overall with an estimated enterprise value of approximately $140 billion. Additionally, we will have a leading position in each of our business segments and operate in the rapidly growing North American energy infrastructure sector," Kinder said. The New York Times' David Gelles noted that the deal reversed the master limited partnership model that Kinder pioneered in the 1990s. Kinder told Gelles that: "Even though I'm the largest shareholder and one of the two cofounders, it's hard to understand." This graphic from RBC Capital Markets shows a before-and-after of the company's operating structure. RBC Capital Markets FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Suzanne PlunkettAlberta, a Tawny Owl, perches on a scaleWhen Stanley Fischer advanced as the frontrunner to join the Federal Reserve as vice chair, there was some concern that he and Fed Chair Janet Yellen might butt heads. But in a speech given earlier Monday in Stockholm, the now Fed Vice Chair confirmed pretty clearly where he sits on the the hawk-dove scale. "So much for speculation that the new Fed Vice Chairman would become a Janet Yellen critic," said Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere. "Fischer stated in a speech in Sweden this morning that U.S. and global recoveries are "disappointing," and may have permanently lowered GDP potential.  The media gives disproportionate coverage to a noisy band of Fed hawks, but the center of power at the Fed is firmly in the dovish camp." "With few exceptions, growth in the advanced economies has underperformed expectations of growth as economies exited from recession," said Fischer in his speech titled "The Great Recession: Moving Ahead." "Year after year we have had to explain from mid-year on why the global growth rate has been lower than predicted as little as two quarters back. Indeed, research done by my colleagues at the Federal Reserve comparing previous cases of severe recessions suggests that, even conditional on the depth and duration of the Great Recession and its association with a banking and financial crisis, the recoveries in the advanced economies have been well below average." REUTERS/Yuri Gripas Stanley FischerReferencing the work of Carmen Reinhart and Ken Rogoff, Fischer warned "is also possible that the underperformance reflects a more structural, longer-term, shift in the global economy, with less growth in underlying supply factors." Fischer articulated his worries about tightening labor supply. "The considerable slowdown in the growth rate of labor supply observed over the past decade is a source of concern for the prospects of U.S. output growth," he said. "There has been a steady decrease in the labor force participation rate since 2000. Although this reduction in labor supply largely reflects demographic factors — such as the aging of the population — participation has fallen more than many observers expected and the interpretation of these movements remains subject to considerable uncertainty." All of this seems to suggest that Fischer will continue to support the Yellen-Fed's plan to keep interest rates low for a very long time. FREE AppDownload
MannKindShares of MannKind were up nearly 30% in pre-market trade after the company announced a development agreement with Sanofi for its inhaled insulin treatment Afrezza. The deal nets MannKind a $150 million payment upfront and potential milestone payments of up to $775 million.  Under the agreement, Sanofi is responsible for global commercial, regulatory and development activities, while Mannkind will make Afrezza at its Danbury, Connecticut facility. Sanofi will retain 65% of profits on Afrezza with MannKind keeping 35%.  The deal comes just seven weeks after MannKind received FDA approval for Afrezza. Excluding Monday's pre-market rally, MannKind shares, which are among the most shorted stocks in the market, were up more than 56% year-to-date.  FREE AppDownload
Russia's recent activities have captured the attention of the world. Its role in destabilizing Ukraine has earned it economic sanctions from the U.S. and the European Union. And Russia has returned fire with economic sanctions of its own, including sweeping bans on food imports from the West. While these sanctions are likely to affect Russia and some of its trading partners materially, they are also likely to have a surprisingly small impact on the global economy as a whole. "In principle, the size of Russia’s economy — less than 3% of global GDP — suggests a limited impact on the global economy," writes Barclays' Christian Keller. Keller offered this eyeopening chart (see below) of how Russia fits into the bigger picture. As you can see, Russia accounts for less than 2% of the world's imports. The financial industry's exposure to Russia is also quite small. Relative to the U.S. and other developed economies, the EU has much more at risk. And it certainly doesn't help the EU that its economic recovery story has been falling apart. Still, the EU's exposure to Russia is small. Exports to Russia account for less than 3% of total exports. Even food exports to Russia account for just a fraction of a percent of total exports. "By themselves, Russia-related sanctions should not have much impact on the global economy," Keller said. Having said that, Keller warns that an "escalating tit-for-tat trade war" would certainly make things worse. Yes, the state of relations between Russia and the rest of the world is not good. But it isn't the end of the world.Barclays FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Navesh ChitrakarYoung Hindu priests take a holy bath together as part of a ritual during the Janai Purnima festival (Sacred Thread Festival) at the premises of Pashupatinath Temple in Kathmandu on Sunday.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: Markets Around The World Are On A Tear. The world stock markets are playing catch-up with the U.S., where the stocks surged 1.1% following reports of Russian warplanes ending drills in Ukraine, a sign that turmoil in the region may be subsiding. In Europe, Britain's FTSE is up 0.7%, France's CAC 40 is up 0.8%, and Germany's DAX is up 1.5%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed up 2.4% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng rallied 1.3%. U.S. futures are up, with Dow futures up 55 points and S&amp;P 500 futures up 7 points. Buzzfeed Is Worth $850 Million. Venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz announced a $50 million investment in Buzzfeed. The NYT's Mike Isaac estimates that makes the viral content site worth around $850 million. "BuzzFeed is a media company in the same sense that Tesla is a car company, Uber is a taxi company, or Netflix is a streaming movie company," Andreessen Horowitz's Chris Dixon said. "We believe we’re in the “deployment” phase of the internet." Kinder Morgan Consolidates. U.S. energy giant Kinder Morgan announced on Sunday that it would buy out all of its publicly traded subsidiaries including Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP, Kinder Morgan Management LLC, and El Paso Pipeline Partners LP. "This transaction dramatically simplifies the Kinder Morgan story, by transitioning from four separately traded equity securities today to one security going forward, and by eliminating the incentive distribution rights and structural subordination of debt,” CEO Richard Kinder said. “Further, we believe that KMI will be a valuable acquisition currency and have a significantly lower hurdle for accretive investments in new energy infrastructure. In the opportunity-rich environment of today’s energy infrastructure sector, we believe this transaction gives us the ability to grow KMI for years to come.” Iraq's Maliki Resists. Amid ongoing turmoil in Iraq, Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki is resisting calls to step down. "Maliki, serving in a caretaker capacity since an inconclusive election in April, has defied calls from Sunnis, Kurds, some fellow Shi'ites, and regional power broker Iran to step aside to make room for a less polarizing figure," reported Reuters' Michael Georgy. "Iraq's highest court ruled on Monday that ... Maliki's bloc is the biggest in parliament, meaning he could retain his position, state television reported." Turkey's Prime Minister Wins The Presidency. "Turkey's ruling party begins deliberations on the shape of the next government on Monday after Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan secured his place in history by winning the nation's first direct presidential election," reported Reuters' Nick Tattersall and Orhan Coskun. "Erdogan's victory in Sunday's vote takes him a step closer to the executive presidency he has long coveted for Turkey. But it is an outcome which his opponents fear will herald an increasingly authoritarian rule." Norwegian Crown Surges. "The Norwegian crown hit a seven-week high against the euro after Norway reported consumer inflation unexpectedly jumped in July, making it less likely the central bank will cut interest rates," reported Reuters' Jemima Kelly. Core inflation jumped 2.6%, which was much higher than the 2.0% expected by economists. It was also much higher than the Norges Bank's 2.5% target. China Inflation. Consumer prices climbed by 2.3% in July, while producer prices fell by 0.9%. Both measures were right in line with expectations. "Limited consumer price pressure means China's central bank retains room to maneuver on monetary policy," Bloomberg economist Tom Orlik said. "Progressive improvement in producer prices suggests the industrial sector continues to strengthen." Stanley Fischer Warns Of A Structural Shift In The Global Economy. Federal Reserve Vice Chair Stanley Fischer gave a speech in Stockholm titled "The Great Recession: Moving Ahead." Among other things, he warned that the we may be in for a long period of low growth. From his speech: "Possibly we are simply seeing a prolonged Reinhart-Rogoff cyclical episode, typical of the aftermath of deep financial crises, and compounded by other temporary headwinds. But it is also possible that the underperformance reflects a more structural, longer-term, shift in the global economy, with less growth in underlying supply factors." Fischer's Also Worried About Labor Supply. "The considerable slowdown in the growth rate of labor supply observed over the past decade is a source of concern for the prospects of U.S. output growth. There has been a steady decrease in the labor force participation rate since 2000. Although this reduction in labor supply largely reflects demographic factors — such as the aging of the population — participation has fallen more than many observers expected and the interpretation of these movements remains subject to considerable uncertainty." Economic Calendar. No major economic reports were scheduled for release Monday. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe market went on a wild ride last week, ending with a big 185-point rally in the Dow that put the major indexes modestly in the green for the week. But thanks to elevated geopolitical risks, traders have got that risk-off feeling. "Risk aversion rules," Societe Generale's Kit Juckes said. "The Ukraine conflict shows no sign of being resolved (rather, there’s far too high a chance of escalation for comfort). [T]he U.S. has approved limited airstrikes in Northern Iraq. The conflict on Gaza, too, is in danger of re-escalation. Investors have plenty of reasons to take risk off the table and are doing so across the board." The safe-haven asset classes have been popular. The Japanese yen has been strengthening against the world's major currencies; German bonds saw yields on the two-year security go negative; and gold rallied to a three-week high on Friday. Treasury bonds have been staging an impressive rally with the yield on the 10-year note sliding to a 14-month low of 2.37%. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Earnings season is wrapping up. "Of these 446 companies [that have reported Q2 results], 73% have reported actual EPS above the mean EPS estimate and 27% have reported actual EPS below the mean EPS estimate," said FactSet's John Butters. "The percentage of companies reporting EPS above the mean EPS estimate is above both the 1-year (72%) average and the 4-year (72%) average." "Inflation remains a key concern for management," said Goldman Sachs' David Kostin, whose team has thumb through the reports and listened to the conference calls. "Companies noted the potential long- term impact of rising costs on margins despite hedges that reduce the near-term impact on profits. Firms in the consumer sectors have already experienced inflationary pressures due to rising input costs. Conflicting opinions exist as to whether boosting prices on the consumer will help mitigate the effect of rising costs." For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eduardo MunozPeople attend a Chinese New Year parade at Chinatown in New York January 29, 2012. The Lunar New Year began on January 23 and marked the start of the Year of the Dragon, according to the Chinese zodiac. BEIJING (Reuters) - More than 150 economic fugitives, many of whom are corrupt officials or suspected of graft in China, are at large in the United States, Chinese state media said on Monday, citing a senior official from the public security ministry. The United States "has become the top destination for Chinese fugitives fleeing the law," the China Daily newspaper said, citing Liao Jinrong, director general of the ministry's International Cooperation Bureau. Chinese President Xi Jinping has made fighting pervasive graft a central theme and has warned, like others before him, that corruption threatens the Communist Party's survival. Beijing has long grappled with the issue of so-called "naked officials" - government workers whose husbands, wives or children are all overseas - who use foreign family connections to illegally shift assets out of China or to avoid investigation. Some estimates put the number of Chinese officials and family members moving assets offshore at more than 1 million in the past five years. But bringing these fugitives back to China isn't easy. There is no extradition treaty between China and the United States, and foreign governments have expressed reluctance to hand over Chinese suspects as they could face the death penalty in China. "We face practical difficulties in getting fugitives who fled to the United States back to face trial due to the lack of an extradition treaty and the complex and lengthy procedures," the China Daily cited Liao as saying. China's Public Security Ministry is trying to set up an annual high-level meeting with U.S. judicial authorities, including the Department of Homeland Security, the China Daily said, citing Wang Gang, a senior official at the International Cooperation Bureau. Last month, China launched what it called a "fox hunt" for corrupt officials, saying it will track down fugitives around the world and punish them. "This is a new message that the current administration is sending to the public," said Zhu Jiangnan, an assistant politics professor at the University of Hong Kong, who specializes in corruption in China. "In past years, the government didn't say very explicitly they will get corrupt officials back to China." A case highlighting the problems of extradition is Lai Changxing, once China's most-wanted fugitive, who fled to Canada with his family in 1999 and claimed refugee status saying allegations that he ran a multibillion-dollar smuggling operation in the southeastern Chinese city of Xiamen were politically motivated. His case triggered tensions between Beijing and Ottawa. Canada eventually deported Lai in 2011, and he was jailed for life the following year. Only two people have been brought home from the United States to China to stand trial in the past decade, the China Daily said, citing ministry figures. It's difficult for China to apprehend fugitives because U.S. judicial authorities "misunderstand the Chinese judicial system and procedures,, the newspaper said, citing experts. "They always think Chinese judicial organs violate suspects' human rights," it quoted Wang as saying. Globally, 320 suspects in corruption cases were "seized and brought back to China" in the first half of this year, state news agency Xinhua said in July. In March, China's top prosecutor, Cao Jianming, said more than 10 billion yuan ($1.65 billion) in "dirty money" and property was recovered and 762 corruption suspects were captured at home or abroad last year. Since the mid-1990s, an estimated 16,000-18,000 party officials, businessmen and other individuals have "disappeared" from China, according to a People's Bank of China report prepared in 2008 - taking with them an estimated 800 billion yuan. (1 US dollar = 6.1528 Chinese yuan)  (Additional reporting by Matthew Miller; Editing by Michael Perry and Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
In his latest weekly note, bearish investor John Hussman sounds the alarm about bubble mania all over again. He writes that the exact behavior that caused the housing bubble is happening again. Investors are using cheap money to buy anything with yield, regardless of risk. He writes: We increasingly see carry being confused with expected return. Carry is the difference between the annual yield of a security and money market interest rates. For example, in a world where short-term interest rates are zero, Wall Street acts as if a 2% dividend yield on equities, or a 5% junk bond yield is enough to make these securities appropriate even for investors with short horizons, not factoring in any compensation for risk or likely capital losses. This is the same thinking that contributed to the housing bubble and subsequent collapse. Banks, hedge funds, and other financial players borrowed massively to accumulate subprime mortgage-backed securities, attempting to “leverage the spread” between the higher yielding and increasingly risky mortgage debt and the lower yield that they paid to depositors and other funding sources. We shudder at how much risk is being delivered – knowingly or not – to investors who plan to retire even a year from now. Barron’s published an article on target-term funds last month with this gem (italics mine): “JPMorgan's 2015 target-term fund has a 42% equity allocation, below that of its peers. Its fund holds emerging-market equity and debt, junk bonds, and commodities.” On the subject of junk debt, in the first two quarters of 2014, European high yield bond issuance outstripped U.S. issuance for the first time in history, with 77% of the total represented by Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, and Spain. This issuance has been enabled by the “reach for yield” provoked by zero interest rate policy. The discomfort of investors with zero interest rates allows weak borrowers – in the words of the Financial Times – “to harness strong investor demand.” Meanwhile, Bloomberg reports that pension funds, squeezed for sources of safe return, have been abandoning their investment grade policies to invest in higher yielding junk bonds. Rather than thinking in terms of valuation and risk, they are focused on the carry they hope to earn because the default environment seems "benign" at the moment. This is just the housing bubble replicated in a different class of securities. It will end badly.  Hussman Funds Read his full note here &gt; FREE AppDownload
Mike Hewitt / Getty ImagesThe record selloff in corporate junk bonds last week is leading some investors to fear it may presage a wider crash in stocks,  John Ficenec argues in The Telegraph today. It's not unreasonable to think that a crash of high-yield debt prices might trigger a downward spike in stock prices. If one part of the market is mispriced, it can trigger corrections elsewhere. (The Dow Jones dipped on Thursday after Lipper reported record junk bond sales but recovered on Friday following the news). But one of the reasons the junk bond market ended up so overvalued is surprising: Because trading in that market is still done person-to-person over the phone rather than in electronic exchanges, according to Barron's. Traders therefore often have only a hazy, anecdotal view of the entire market. Here is the backstory: Until recently, demand from buyers kept bond prices high and the interest on them low. Corporations floated a massive mount of money into bonds, The Telegraph says: Investors have placed about $80bn into US high-yield bond funds during the past half-decade. Assets under management in European high-yield bond funds have grown from €12bn at the beginning of 2009 to €57bn (£45.5bn) in April 2014, according to Morningstar data. The Telegraph says that "wall of money" is now pouring out again: High-yield bond funds and exchange- traded funds reported a record $8.2bn (£4.8bn) weekly outflow last week, according to the latest data from EPFR Global. The wall of money coming out of riskier assets exceeds the previous record single-week outflow (set during the June 2013 bond market sell-off) by about $2.5bn. The withdrawals are also larger than those recorded at the height of the global financial crisis. As bond prices decline in the selloff, it can hurt companies. Bond prices move in the opposite direction of the interest that they yield, so as bond prices decline the interest payments companies have to make to sell them goes up — making them too expensive for some companies to consider. A credit crunch for companies does not augur well for their stocks, of course. The Wall Street Journal warned stocks might suffer: Many investors this year have expressed concerns that a pullback in junk-bond prices could signal that market participants are rethinking their willingness to take risk, foreshadowing further declines in stocks and other risky assets. Right on cue, Bloomberg reported that the market for new junk bond sales in August is slower than it was last year. Worse, some analysts are baffled as to why it's happening now. Barron's adds: "This might be the most perplexing selloff we've experienced in a while," Citi strategists wrote in a recent report. "There doesn't appear to be a clear trigger, causing some consternation among market participants." Part of the mystery is to do with the fact that traders are still calling each other on the phone to make sales, Barron's says. That consternation is reflected in an antiquated quirk of high-yield bonds: They're still mainly traded over the phone rather than on electronic exchanges.arge banks and dealers—the primary buyers—have power to set prices they're willing to pay for all but the smallest trades. When the selling picked up in late July, they rapidly lowered their quotes. Granted, prices in any market go down when there are more sellers than buyers, but the lack of an exchange creates additional hurdles in terms of efficiency and negotiation. "In some ways, it's not a real market," says Sabur Moini, head of high yield at Payden &amp; Rygel in Los Angeles. He says dealers remain hesitant to take on inventory of risky bonds, particularly over a weekend, given ongoing global conflicts. "Well over 90% of high yield is still a broker-to-broker market. In that way, high yield and investment grade are totally different worlds." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Enrique MarcarianThere's one line of thinking that goes that the market has rallied only because of the Fed. And that when the eventual Fed tightening comes into view, markets will tumble. The other view is that the market represents fundamental economic and market improvement. In his latest Weekly Kickstart note, Goldman's David Kostin relays some observations from earnings season that should make the latter camp very happy. Basically they show that fundamentals are strong, and improving, and suggest that there's more to the market than just the Fed. Here are a few of the key ones: — We estimate S&amp;P 500 2Q 2014 operating EPS at $29.44, 12% growth versus 2Q 2013. S&amp;P 500 2Q EPS is tracking 3% above the consensus estimate at the start of the reporting season. Our full-year forecast of $116 implies downside to the bottom-up consensus estimate of $118. Our forecast implies 7% earnings growth in 2H 2014 versus 9% growth in 1H. — S&amp;P 500 margins expanded to a new historical high of 9.1%. Margins exited the 50 bp range between 8.4% and 8.9% for the first time in four years. Trailing four-quarter margins expanded by 17 bp versus 1Q 2014. The Information Technology and Health Care sectors were the largest contributors to index level margin expansion. Margins declined for only one sector, Energy, while Consumer Discretionary margins were unchanged. — Management guidance has been less negative than usual. Only 69% (56 of 81) of the firms provided 3Q guidance below the midpoint of consensus estimates. The ratio is below the historical average of 71% and notably less than the trend in recent quarters of 80%-90%. This is the first below-average quarter since 1Q 2012. Kostin also notes that some common themes on conference calls include the improving company, more corporate spending (on capex and buybacks) and rising inflationary pressure). Overall, earnings commentary and facts point to a corporate sector that continues to improve, bolstering the case for stocks. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSigns hangs outside a Royal Bank of Scotland building in central LondonZURICH (Reuters) - State-backed Royal Bank of Scotland  is preparing to offload the international arm of its private bank, separating it from the UK unit, according to a source familiar with the matter. The British bank has attracted a variety of offers from a range of bidders for Coutts International, including undisclosed Asian and North American parties for a business which manages roughly 40 billion Swiss francs ($44.2 billion) in client assets, the source said. There is a long list of attractive parties for the international arm, the source said, which is part of a 320-year-old bank. The international unit, which employs 1,200 staff, has cut the number of countries it serves dramatically in a roughly three-year restructuring. The move means RBS plans to maintain the British private bank, which counts the Queen among its clients. A spokeswoman for RBS declined to comment on the news on Monday. In the past, RBS has said Coutts will sit within its commercial and private bank, in order to better connect it with the wealthy entrepreneurs and other potential clients. "As part of the transition and integration of this business, we have been reviewing our private banking business so that it works for the benefit of our customers," RBS said last week. Last year, Coutts International's operating profit stood at 103 million francs when stripping out provisions, including for a U.S. tax crackdown. The Swiss arm of Coutts is one of 100-plus Swiss banks who have reason to believe they may have committed tax offences by helping wealthy Americans evade taxes - and are eligible for a non-prosecution agreement if they come clean and face fines.  (1 US dollar = 0.9057 Swiss franc)  (Reporting By Katharina Bart) FREE AppDownload
Flickr/stereogabTOKYO (Reuters) - Asian stocks rose in early trade on Monday after Wall Street rallied with the latest round of tensions in Ukraine easing for now, although simmering tensions in other geopolitical hotspots such as Iraq limited gains. Wall Street surged on Friday after Russia's defense ministry said it had finished military exercises in southern Russia, which the United States had criticized as a provocative step amid the Ukraine crisis. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was up 0.3 percent after shedding 0.9 percent on Friday. Tokyo's Nikkei rose 1.5 percent, helped as the yen's sharp rally against the dollar on Friday was reversed. The index had lost 3 percent on Friday. Asian stock markets were unable to fully pare Friday's losses, with investors wary of piling back into risk assets as the situation in Iraq was marked by an increasing death toll and new U.S. air strikes. The dollar, which suffered heavy losses against the safe-haven yen last week after U.S. President Barack Obama authorized air strikes in Iraq, stood steady after rebounding sharply late Friday as the Ukrainian news arrested the slide in U.S. Treasury bond yields. Some observers saw the correlation between lower Treasury yields, and weaker dollar loosening amid the latest phase in geopolitical tensions. Kathy Lien, managing director at BK Asset Management, said heightened geopolitical uncertainty makes Treasuries more attractive to investors and central banks looking to park their money in such safe havens, with their demand supporting the greenback. "Geopolitical uncertainty is clearly driving risk appetite and the conflicts abroad has made U.S. assets very attractive," she wrote in a note to clients. The dollar was up 0.1 percent at 102.12 yen after touching a low of 101.51 on Friday. The euro stood little changed at $1.3407. The benchmark U.S. Treasury 10-year note yielded 2.422 percent, having pulled back from a 14-month low of 2.349 percent struck Friday. The 10-year yield on Japanese government bonds, another asset sought in times of geopolitical tension, stood poised to break below 0.500 percent, which would take it to a 16-month low. In commodities, Brent crude oil extended losses after falling Friday as the U.S. air strikes in Iraq were perceived to lower risk of supply disruptions from OPEC's second-largest producer. Brent crude dipped 12 cents to $104.90 a barrel.  (Editing by Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of a visitor walking past a Microsoft booth at a computer software expo in Beijing. On a trip to Beijing a decade ago, Bill Gates was asked by a senior government official how much money Microsoft Corp. made in China. The official asked the interpreter to double-check Gates' reply as he couldn't believe the figure was so low. It's a problem that hasn't gone away. Indeed, Microsoft's current issues in China conceal a deeper problem for the U.S. software giant — despite the popularity of its Windows operating system and Office suite, few people in emerging markets are willing to pay for legitimate copies. This not only costs Microsoft in lost revenue, but is also holding back the spread of its newest Windows 8 version — analysts say even buyers of pirate software prefer older versions. According to StatCounter, a website that tracks what software is loaded on Internet-connected computers, more than 90 percent of PCs in China — now the world's biggest market — are running pre-8 versions of Windows. Microsoft is trying to tackle this. This year it's offering Windows 8 at a discount to PC manufacturers who install its Bing search engine as the default. And it's giving away versions of Windows 8 for phones and some tablets. But, as the industry shifts from desktop to mobile, the cloud and free or cheap software, China sums up both the old and new challenges Microsoft faces in making money in emerging markets — and, increasingly, in developed ones. "The great danger for the company is that what has happened to them in emerging markets — basically no revenue from new PCs because of piracy — is not far off what's happening everywhere," said Ben Thompson, the Taiwan-based author of stratechery.com, a popular technology blog. For sure, China is a major, and unique, headache for Microsoft. Many of the problems are tied to a broader push by the Chinese government to limit foreign firms' dominance and encourage local technology firms to become viable competitors. After years of healthy relations with Beijing, Microsoft last month was suddenly targeted by anti-monopoly regulators who raided its China offices as part of a price-fixing investigation. But the spats mask the fact that Microsoft has never really cracked how to get people in emerging markets to pay for its software. The company rarely breaks out revenues by geography, but it has provided clues about the size of the problem. In 2011, then-CEO Steve Ballmer reportedly told employees that, because of piracy, Microsoft earned less revenue in China than in the Netherlands — with 1 percent of its population — even though China bought as many computers as the United States. According to the BSA anti-piracy lobby group that Microsoft cofounded, emerging markets account for 56 percent of all PCs in use, and 73 percent of software piracy. Of the $77.8 billion revenue Microsoft generated in its 2013 financial year, China, Brazil, and Russia each "exceeded" $1 billion, according to a Microsoft presentation. For comparison, Apple Inc. generated $27 billion in Greater China, which includes Hong Kong and Taiwan, in its 2013 financial year. For Microsoft, that's a lot of lost revenue from the heart of its business. "Windows and Office are still very much the core of Microsoft," says Sameer Singh, an India-based analyst. The most recent breakdown by Microsoft of its results by product line — for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 — shows that 56 percent of its global revenue and 78 percent of operating profit came from Windows and Office. Microsoft doesn't just lose the revenue from pirate copies, it also loses access to customers who might buy other Microsoft products that work with or on top of Windows and Office. Across most markets, Windows and Office account for more than half of revenues, says Andrew Pickup, Microsoft's Asia PR chief. This, analysts say, is because many of Microsoft's other products, such as Exchange and Windows servers, depend on customers already using Windows and Office. "The Microsoft ecosystem is obviously pretty interconnected," says Jan Dawson of U.S.-based Jackdaw Research. "So it makes sense that the proportion of revenue would be similar in emerging markets." Part of the intractability of piracy in emerging markets is that each part of the chain poses a problem. For PC makers working on wafer-thin margins, the operating system is one of the costliest parts of the machine, while mom-and-pop shops, which form the bulk of retailers in such markets, can't afford to turn away price-sensitive customers who are comfortable buying pirate software. The problem, therefore, starts with computer makers, Singh says, because "convincing them to ship every PC with Windows pre-installed is difficult." Margins on PCs for a company like Lenovo Group Ltd. are "near single digits," says Bryan Wang, an analyst at Gartner. The result is that up to 60 percent of PCs shipped in the emerging markets of Asia, says IDC research manager Handoko Andi, have no Windows operating system pre-installed — so-called "naked PCs," which usually instead carry some free, open source operating system like Linux. That compares with about 25 percent in the region's developed markets like Japan and Australia. A quick scan of Taobao, the popular Chinese e-commerce site operated by Alibaba, shows a vast selection of PCs shipped with Linux rather than Windows. Once the machines hit the retailers, it's hard to tell where legitimate software stops and piracy begins. On a recent morning in Zhongguancun, a teeming electronics hub in north Beijing, shopkeepers offered to bundle what they said were legitimate versions of Windows with a new laptop, either for free or the equivalent of about $30. Microsoft began lobbying Lenovo in 2004 to stop shipping naked PCs, but the Chinese firm countered that its margins were too low, a person familiar with the negotiations said. Two years later — just days before then-President Hu Jintao visited Gates' U.S. home — China announced a new law requiring PCs to be shipped with operating systems. That merely dented piracy rates, which fell to 79 percent in 2009 from 92 percent in 2004, according to the BSA. Lenovo said it reached an agreement with Microsoft in June of this year to ensure that Lenovo PCs sold in China would come pre-installed with a genuine Windows operating system. Microsoft's new approach is to push the price of Windows low enough to make it worth a PC maker's while. The cost of a Windows license has fallen to below $50 from as high as $150, said IDC's Andi, taking Microsoft down to "levels where they've never competed before." Microsoft's Pickup said it was too early to gauge take-up. In any case, making Windows cheaper for PCs is just part of a broader response to deeper shifts in the industry. The rise of mobile, tablets, cloud-based services and free operating systems has marginalized Microsoft and challenged its business model. While Windows is on more than 90 percent of traditional computers — according to data compiled by analyst Ben Bajarin — that figure drops to below 14 percent once mobile devices such as phones and tablets are factored in, estimates Gartner. More than half those devices run Google's Android mobile OS, which is effectively free to handset and tablet makers. Apple, a key player in all types of devices, gives away upgrades to its operating systems for free. Pickup says Microsoft has listened to phone makers' complaints and relaxed what hardware they need to install the mobile version of Windows. It has also made the operating system free on any mobile device of 9 inches or less. Taken together, the moves are "about bringing down the cost as more and more of the populations in these emerging markets are having their first computing experience," Pickup said. These are significant concessions, analysts say, but Microsoft will have to learn to be a bit player, where its software and services run on other people's operating systems. "The biggest threat to Microsoft," Dawson said, "is the shift from a PC-based world where Microsoft dominated to a mobile world where Microsoft is an also-ran." (Additional reporting by Noel Randewich in SAN FRANCISCO and Bill Rigby in SEATTLE; Editing by Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Romeo RanocoA supermoon over metro Manila on Monday.Good morning! Here's what people will be chatting about on Monday. 1. An Iraqi Shi'ite coalition is close to nominating a prime minister, Iraq's deputy speaker Haider al-Abadi said in a tweet on Monday, meaning that prime minister Nuri al-Maliki may have to give up his bid for a third term. This comes after Maliki gave a surprise television speech Sunday night filing a complaint against president Fuad Masum for violating the constitution.  2. The second three-day cease-fire between Israel and Hamas has taken effect in Gaza. If the truce holds, "Israel will send negotiators to Cairo on Monday for talks on a longer-term deal," the BBC said.  3. The streets of Ferguson, Missouri, descended into chaos Sunday night following the fatal shooting of a teenager by a police officer. Protesters smashed windows and looted stores after a candlelight vigil for 18-year-old Michael Brown, who witnesses say was unarmed when the shooting occurred.  4. Tens of thousands of members from the Yazidi community who escaped to the Sinjar mountains in Northwestern Iraq made their way to a Syrian refuge camp Sunday night. Thousands of Yazidis remain trapped in the mountains, where the minority group has been seeking safety from ISIS militants for several weeks.  4. Oil-and-gas pipeline company Kinder Morgan plans to spend $44 billion to buy out all its subsidiaries in the second-largest deal in the energy sector, The Financial Times said. Kinder currently manages 80,000 miles of pipeline in North America.  5. Investigators have not ruled out criminal charges in the fatal collision that occurred Saturday night in which NASCAR champion Tony Stewart struck and killed 20-year-old driver Kevin Ward Jr. A former state and federal prosecutor told the Associated Press: "I think even with the video, it's going to be tough to prove that this was more than just an accident and that it was even culpable negligence, which he should've known or should've believed that by getting close to this guy, that it was going to cause the accident," he said. 6. Venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz has announced a $50 million investment in BuzzFeed, placing the value of the company at $850 million, The New York Times reported. The money will be used to make "several major changes, including introducing new content sections, creating an in-house incubator for new technology and potential acquisitions, and putting far more resources toward BuzzFeed Motion Pictures," The Times said.  7. Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan won Turkey's first presidential election by popular vote, holding onto to his 12-year reign in office. The outcome "cements [Erdogan's] position as Turkey's most powerful ruler since the Republic's founder, Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, was president in the 1930s," The Wall Street Journal said.  8. Rory McIlroy won the PGA championship in Valhalla on Sunday. The 25-year-old from Northern Ireland has secured his status as world number one with his second straight major title.  9. Sky watchers around the world were treated to a supermoon Sunday night, when the full moon appears bigger and brighter than normal because it has reached the point in its orbit closest to earth. If you missed this supermoon, don't worry, there's another one Sept. 9.  10. MPs are calling for mandatory health warnings on bottles of wine, beer, and spirits to combat alcohol abuse in Britain and raise awareness about the dangers of excessive drinking, The Guardian reported. An advocacy group for alcohol misuse says the labels should display written warnings as well as caloric information.  And finally... Actors Shailene Woodley and Ansel Elgort of "The Fault in Our Stars" were the big winners of Sunday night's Teen Choice Awards. Both took home an award for Choice Move Drama and shared an award for Choice Movie Chemistry.  FREE AppDownload
