FREE AppDownload
Elon Musk was on "60 Minutes" tonight, talking about his two big companies: Tesla and SpaceX. In the segment, Musk says he expected Tesla to fail. He gives interviewere Scot Pelley a great answer for why he decided to build the economy anyway. You should try important things. Scott Pelley: How did you figure you were going to start a car company and be successful at it? Elon Musk: Well, I didn't really think Tesla would be successful. I thought we would most likely fail. But I thought that we at least could address the false perception that people have that an electric car had to be ugly and slow and boring like a golf cart. Scott Pelley: But you say you didn't expect the company to be successful? Then why try? Elon Musk: If something's important enough you should try. Even if you — the probable outcome is failure. Watch the full segment here:    FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Trading has begun, and U.S. futures are heading higher. From FinViz: FinViz The gain isn't huge, obviously. The dollar is rising against the yen, also positive for risk assets. Remember, this is going to be a huge week for economic data, culminating with the jobs report on Friday. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMembers of a French scientific police inspect the scene after a man opened fire outside the French bank Societe Generale building in the financial district of La Defense(Reuters) - The Libyan Investment Authority has accused France's second-biggest bank Societe Generale &lt;SOGN.PA&gt; of funneling bribes worth tens of millions of dollars to associates of Saif al-Islam, the son of former Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi, the Financial Times reported late Sunday. "Societe Generale contests the unfounded allegations in the Libyan Investment Authority's (LIA) complaint," a spokeswoman for the bank said in an emailed statement, without giving more details. The newspaper said the LIA has filed a $1.5 billion lawsuit against the bank in London's High Court. According to the FT, the LIA alleges that SocGen paid at least $58 million to Leinada, a Panamanian-registered company, for advisory services related to $2.1 billion of derivative trades that the Libyan sovereign wealth fund entered into with SocGen between late 2007 and 2009. The LIA's legal filing claims that Leinada did not have the expertise to advise or structure such deals, the newspaper reported. The FT said that the LIA claims to have suffered heavy losses in the deals with SocGen, and is seeking to have the trades voided to recoup the money allegedly paid to Leinada and to be awarded damages for the alleged fraud. "This claim, together with the one against Goldman Sachs that was initiated in January 2014, reflects the desire of the LIA's new board of directors to redress previous wrongs and seek the recovery of these substantial funds as it seeks to invest and generate wealth for the people of Libya," AbdulMagid Breish, chairman of the LIA told the FT. He added that "the former Libyan regime left behind many challenges in its wake. The LIA is resolved to address these challenges, and to develop a new strategy for the future. The board has embarked on a short to medium-term transformation program to strengthen the LIA and to enhance its corporate governance in accordance with best practices, enabling the institution to invest wisely for the future." (Reporting by Aashika Jain in Bangalore; Editing by Eric Walsh) FREE AppDownload
CrockettandJones1 via YouTubeQuality dress shoes are expensive, but they can last for decades, especially if they are cared for properly. That's where shoe trees come in. Some men look at the wooden shoe inserts as an unnecessary purchase, but shoe trees are crucial to keeping shoes in amazing shape as they age. Our feet sweat throughout the day, and the leather and lining of our shoes absorb all that moisture. This can cause the lining to rot, your shoes to stink, and the leather to crack over time, thereby ruining expensive footwear. A shoe tree holds a shoe in its proper shape so it dries out correctly, and keeps the leather from cracking by wicking away moisture. The absorbent wood also helps dry out the lining of shoes so that they don't rot from the inside out. Long story short: Shoe trees are a whole lot cheaper than a new pair of nice shoes, and will keep your current pair in excellent condition for years. Not all shoe trees are created equal. There are three tiers of shoe trees, as well as travel shoe trees. Cheap Shoe Trees ($15-$30) AmazonThese are the bare minimum for those who want a shoe tree but don't want to spend too much money. If your shoes cost less than $200, this is a fine option. Cheaper shoe trees generally don’t have full wooden heels. Instead, a nob or a piece of thin wood helps stretch out the shoe. These will help with odor and leather cracking, but they won’t hold the shoe shape quite as nicely as more expensive options. Also, don’t buy a varnished shoe tree. They look nice, but they don't properly draw moisture and sweat from the leather and lining, which is the point of the product. A rough cedar version should work well. (Pro tip: When the smell of the cedar starts to fade, you can lightly sand the shoe tree to bring it back.) Quality Shoe Trees ($25-$50) Jos. A. BankShell out for nicer trees if your shoes cost more than $200. Quality shoe trees will have ventilation slots at the toe to help dissipate moisture, a longer, crafted heel, and contain more wood for better drying and odor control. They will also ensure the closest possible fit between the shoe and tree. As with the cheaper versions, top marks go to unfinished cedar models and those with knobs or handles for maintaining your shoes' shape during polishing. Lasted Shoe Trees (bespoke, costs will vary) BlueflyIf your shoes cost more than $700, chances are they will come with their own lasted (specially crafted) shoe trees. Brands like Prada and Gucci sometimes sell their own with high-end shoes, or they come as a perk for splurging on fine footwear. These are the best of the best when it comes to shoe trees, because they are essentially an entire cedar foot that draws out moisture and maintains the natural shape of the shoe. Travel Shoe Trees ($10-$20) FootFitter.comPerfect for business travelers or jetsetters, travel shoe trees are typically plastic (although there are cedar versions) that are lightweight and great for keeping your shoes’ shape in a suitcase without them getting smooshed. This is the most common question about shoe trees, and something shoe bloggers and experts find controversial. It would be ideal to have a shoe tree in every nice pair of shoes you own — no, you don’t need them in your sneakers — but it's not absolutely necessary, as long as you rotate your shoes and shoe trees throughout the week. Shoes need a full 24 hours to dry before the next wearing, and the best way to properly dry them is to insert a shoe tree. If you have a few pairs of nice shoes that you rotate, ostensibly you need only one or two shoes trees to keep in your most recently worn pair of shoes. The vital time for using shoe trees is the hour or two after you’ve removed your shoes from your feet to best draw out moisture and help the shoe return to its natural shape. After that, the shoe trees merely retain shape and help with odor control. But if you’re a huge fan of all your shoes and have a vast collection of expensive footwear, then buy a shoe tree for every pair. Some shoe collectors swear by them. But most men can get away with using a single set of shoe trees on their most recently worn shoes. FREE AppDownload
Ben Franske, Wikimedia Commons By some measures, the Japanese economy has gathered steam over the last year or so as aggressive monetary easing — a key leg of "Abenomics" — has boosted inflation and the proclivity to spend. But now Japan is about to get punched in the gut, straight on. On April 1, the consumption tax is set to rise, from 5% to 8%, and though this has been seen coming from a mile away, nobody has done anything about it. And now it's here. From Jonathan Soble at FT: Most economists expect the world’s number-three economy to suffer its first contraction in more than a year in the April-to-June quarter, led by a sharp fall-off in consumption. What is less predictable is how deep and prolonged the decline will be. The answer will help determine the fate of the “Abenomics” revival fostered by Shinzo Abe, the prime minister, since he took office at the end of 2012. The impact of the tax hike, according to Morgan Stanley's Robert Alan Feldman will be extended. In its latest outlook on the state of the world's biggest economies, Citi writes: Meanwhile, despite the Abe Administration’s strong prompting, the hike in base salaries in the spring wage negotiations was modest even at large firms whose business conditions are relatively favorable, suggesting that companies remain cautious about increasing fixed compensation. We expect the consumption tax hike in April will erode badly the real purchasing power of household nominal income. Core inflation continued to surprise to the upside in 2013. In our view, the main reason for this surprise is the significantly higher sensitivity of the core CPI to the yen/dollar rate. Japan’s dependence on imports (“import penetration”) has risen substantially over time. But it also indicates that if the yen stabilises at a certain level, core inflation will start tailing off again in the future. In addition, the output gap is likely to widen after the consumption tax hike and this will probably reduce pricing power of the corporate sector. We currently expect core inflation to peak around April and to fall gradually in the second half of this year. Meanwhile, back to Morgan Stanley, which takes a look at the impact by sector. Not surprisingly, consumer-oriented industries will likely get hit the worst: We surveyed Morgan Stanley analysts to gauge the impact of this tax hike. We used our survey as the groundwork for a four-factor model to evaluate the attractiveness of each industry over the next 3-9 months when the impact of the tax hike is likely to be in full force. The model has four main factors with equal weights: 1) Demand pullback post C-tax hike based on analysts’ feedback 2) Foreign exposure 3) Valuations, profitability &amp; performance. 4) Earnings momentum. Using this model, we find that Banks, Autos, Semis, Health Equipment and Real Estate are the most preferred industries in the post C-tax hike environment while Media, Retailing, Consumer Durables &amp; Apparel, Consumer Services and Food &amp; Staples Retailing would be least preferred. The consumption tax hike fits into a longer story about Japan, basically it's inclination to put obstacles in its own path, whether they be structural, fiscal, or monetary. Bottom line: As the fiscal drag picks up, the burden on the Bank of Japan, and the monetary side of Abenomics becomes more extreme. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paul BarkerDave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus passes along the stories that traders are reading and chewing over this weekend. Here are some notable ones: FREE AppDownload
The next book from Michael Lewis comes out Monday, and it's called "Flash Boys." It's all about the world of high-frequency trading, the controversial approach to making money on Wall Street using algorithms, computers, advanced coding, and other techniques to get around human opponents. Lewis will be on "60 Minutes" tonight, and over the next several days there will be a lot of attention paid to the book, the contents of which have been held closely under wraps. Marcus Baram at International Business Times got a copy of the book, and tweeted out the first page, which contains a clever reference to "The Wire." This quote from "The Wire" inspired Michael Lewis when he wrote "Flash Boys"... Attn: @TheStalwart @morningmoneyben pic.twitter.com/Wxz3N1Oqzq FREE AppDownload
    Esther Perel, a couples therapist and the international best selling author of "Mating in Captivity," reveals her provocative perspective on the subject of infidelity. Aiming to spark a new conversation about this taboo topic, Perel reverses the lens by proposing that affairs are not a symptom of a problem in one's relationship, but are instead an expression of a deeper longing to experience something different. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGoldman Sachs sign is seen above floor of the New York Stock Exchange shortly after the opening bell in the Manhattan borough of New YorkBUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - Argentina is closing in on a deal to receive around $1 billion in loans from investment bank Goldman Sachs &lt;GS.N&gt; and is in talks with other international banks about similar deals, local newspaper Pagina/12 reported on Sunday. The paper, which has close ties with the government of President Cristina Fernandez, said the two-year loan would be announced in the next few days and carry an annual interest rate of 6.5 percent. It would be the first time in more than a decade the country has received a substantial loan from international creditors and comes as the government seeks cash to avoid a further devaluation of the peso. The Economy Ministry did not provide immediate comment on the report. The government wants the new funds to boost its depleted foreign exchange reserves, the paper said, citing an unnamed government source. The reserves will see a further improvement in April with the export of the country's grain harvest. Dollars have been scarce in Argentina due to capital flight, weak exports, and low competitiveness because of high inflation. The country has also been shut out of international capital markets since a massive 2002 default. The government also hoped securing the Goldman Sachs loan would demonstrate that its strategy of thawing relations with international creditors was starting to take effect, said the paper. Argentina has offered to repay a debt of around $9.5 billion to the Paris Club of creditor nations stemming from the 2002 default. The club had accepted Argentina's initial proposal to pay back the funds without recourse to the International Monetary Fund and to request credit lines from the countries it owed money to, Pagina/12 said in a separate report on Sunday. Talks were continuing over the repayment terms, it added. (Reporting by Maximiliano Rizzi; Writing by Rosalba O'Brien; Editing by Sophie Hares) FREE AppDownload
Green energy has been around for quite awhile. From GE: "In 1887, Charles F. Brush built the first power generating wind turbine in Cleveland, Ohio. It was a 4-ton, 60-foot monster with 144 blades and a long, comet-like tail. It generated just 12 kilowatts of electricity – enough supply no more than three modern American homes. Brush later merged his electric company with Thomas Edison’s GE." @GeneralElectric FREE AppDownload
Hunter Walker  Bern's Steakhouse is an opulent Tampa, Fl. institution that boasts of having the "world's largest wine cellar." Business Insider visited Bern's last week, and wine steward Chris Lewis gave us a tour of the facilities where the restaurant claims to store more than 600,000 bottles of vino.  On the way into the wine cellar there are shelves for wine that's available by the glass.  Hunter Walker  There are separate storage areas for the reds, whites, and Madeiras that are sold by the glass. Lewis showed off this Madeira from 1839. Hunter Walker  Lewis said the aisles in the cellar at the restaurant are "set up like your local library" and numbered from one to 10,000. The entire collection has never been catalogued and staffers sometimes find surprises in the stacks.  Hunter Walker  According to Lewis, there are about 100,000 bottles in the cellar at the restaurant and another 500,000 in this building next door. Louis described the collection as "about a 70-30 split" between red and white wines. He said there are more reds since they are more commonly paired with steak.  Hunter Walker This is the locked "rare room" where Bern's keeps its priciest bottles individually wrapped in plastic. "There are a lot of last bottles on Earth in this room," Lewis said. "The oldest in this room is an 1815 Port." Hunter Walker  Lewis went into the "rare room" to get us a picture of what he said were the two most expensive bottles "by far" — a $15,000 2007 magnum of Romanée Conti and a $30,000 1947 double magnum of Chateau Latour that was found in the cellar in 2010.  Hunter Walker The champagne shelves are kept a few degrees cooler than the rest of the cellar.  Hunter Walker  Since Tampa is on the water and isn't elevated, the cellar at Bern's is at the street level. Because of this, the walls are covered with insulation made from newspaper to keep the temperature controlled.  Hunter Walker  Here's Lewis showing off the wine list, which, as you can see, is quite extensive. An abridged copy sits on each table.  Hunter Walker  FREE AppDownload
skenmy via www.flickr.com creative commonsBillions of dollars are flowing into online advertising. But marketers also are confronting an uncomfortable reality: rampant fraud. About 36% of all Web traffic is considered fake, the product of computers hijacked by viruses and programmed to visit sites, according to estimates cited recently by the Interactive Advertising Bureau trade group. – Wall Street Journal, “The Secret About Online Ad Traffic: One-Third Is Bogus,”March 23, 2014 Over the last decade, institutional management of equity portfolios has increased from 54% to 81%. … Institutional buys and sells accounted for 47% of trading volume between 2001 and 2006, but only 29% of trading volume since 2008 ....One of the most significant results of the tension between fewer market participants and larger parent order sizes is that the share of ‘real’ trading volume has declined by around 40% in the last five years.– Morgan Stanley QDS, “Real Trading Volume”, Charles Crow and Simon Emrich,April 11, 2012 I first saw Apocalypse Now as a college freshman with two roommates, a couple of years after it had been released, and I can still recall the dazed pang of shock and exhaustion I felt when we stumbled out of the theatre. Nobody said anything on the drive back to campus. We were each lost in our thoughts, trying to process what we had just seen. Our focus was on Marlon Brando’s Col. Kurtz, of course, because we were 18-year old boys and he was a larger than life villain or anti-hero or superman or … something … we weren’t quite sure what he was, only that we couldn’t forget him. When I reflect on the movie today, though, I find myself thinking less about Kurtz than I do about Martin Sheen’s Capt. Willard. Both Kurtz and Willard were self-aware. They had no illusions about their own actions or motivations, including the betrayals and murders they carried out. Both Kurtz and Willard saw through the veneer of the Vietnam War. They had no illusions regarding the essential hollowness of the entire enterprise, and they saw clearly the heart of darkness and horrific will that was left when you stripped away the surface trappings. So what made Willard stick with the mission? How was Willard able to navigate within a world he knew was playing him falsely, while Kurtz could not? I don’t want to say that I admire Willard, because there’s nothing really admirable there, and this isn’t going to be a web-lite note along the lines of “Three Things that Every Investor Should Learn from Apocalypse Now”. But there is a quality to Willard that I find useful in recalling whenever I am confronted with hard evidence that the world is playing me falsely. Or at least it helps keep me from shaving my head and going rogue. The WSJ article cited above – where it now seems that more than one-third of all Web traffic is fake, generated by bots and zombies to create ad click-throughs and fake popularity – is a good example of what I’m talking about. One-third of all Web traffic? Fake? How is that possible? I mean … I understand how it’s technologically possible, but how is it possible that this sort of fraud has been going on for so long and to such a gargantuan degree that I don’t know about it or somehow feel it? I’m sure that anyone in e-commerce or network security will chuckle at my naïveté, but I was really rocked by this article. What else have I been told or led to believe about the Web is a lie? But then I remember conversations I have with non-investor friends when I describe to them how little of trading volume today is real, i.e., between an actual buyer and an actual seller. I describe to them how as much as 70% of the trading activity in markets today – activity that generates the constantly changing up and down arrows and green and red numbers they see and react to on CNBC – is just machines talking to other machines, shifting shares around for “liquidity provision” or millisecond arbitrage opportunities. Even among real investors, individuals or institutions who own a portfolio of exposures and aren’t simply middlemen of one sort or another, so much of what we do is better described as positioning rather than investing, where we are rebalancing or tweaking a remarkably static portfolio against this generic risk or that generic risk rather than expressing an active opinion on the pros or cons of fractional ownership of a real-world company. Inevitably these non-investor friends are as slack-jawed at my picture of modern market structure as I am when I read this article about modern Web traffic structure. How can this be, they ask? I shrug. There is no answer. It just is. My sense is that if you talk to a professional in any walk of life today, whether it’s technology or finance or medicine or law or government or whatever, you will hear a similar story of hollowness in their industry. The trappings, the facades, the faux this and faux that, the dislocation between public narrative and private practice … it’s everywhere. I understand that authenticity has always been a rare bird on an institutional or societal level. But there is something about the aftermath of the Great Recession, a something that is augmented by Big Data technology, that has made it okay to embrace public misdirection and miscommunication as an acceptable policy “tool”. It’s telling when Jon Stewart, a comedian, is the most authentic public figure I know. It’s troubling when I have to assume that everything I hear from any politician or any central banker is being said for effect, not for the straightforward expression of an honest opinion. The question is not “Is it a Hollow World?”. If you’re reading Epsilon Theory I’m pretty sure that I don’t have to spend a lot of words convincing you of that fact. Nor is the question “How do we fix the Hollow World?”. Or at least that’s not my question. Sorry, but being a revolutionary is a young man’s game, and the pay is really bad. More seriously, I don’t think it’s possible to organize mass society in a non-hollow fashion without doing something about the “mass” part. So given that we are stuck in the world as it is, my question is “How do we adapt to a Hollow World?”. As Conrad wrote, the question is not how to get cured, but how to live. How do we make our way through the battlefield of modern economics and politics, a world that we know is hollow and false in so many important ways, without losing our minds and ending up in a metaphorical jungle muttering “the horror, the horror” to ourselves? Two suggestions for adapting to the Hollow Market piece of a Hollow World, one defensive in nature and one for offense. On defense, recognize that modern markets are, in fact, quite hollow and everything you hear from a public voice is being said for effect. But that doesn’t mean that the underlying economic activity of actual human beings and actual companies is similarly fake or bogus. The trick, I think, is to recognize the modern market for what it IS – a collection of socially constructed symbols, exactly like the chips in a casino, that we wager within games that combine a little skill with a lot of chance. There is a relationship between the chips and the real-world economic activity, but that relationship is never perfect and often exists as only the slimmest of threads. The games themselves are driven by the stories we are told, and there are rules to this game-playing that you can learn. But it’s a hard game to play, and it’s even harder to find a great game-player who will bet your chips on your behalf. A better strategy for most, I think, is to adopt an attitude of what I call profound agnosticism, where we assume that ALL of the stories we hear (including the narratives of economic science) are equally suspect, and we make no pretense of predicting what stories will pop up tomorrow or how the market will shape itself around them. What we want is to have as much connection to that underlying economic activity of actual human beings and actual companies as possible, and as little connection as possible to the game-playing and story-telling, no matter how strongly we’ve been trained to believe in this story or that. I think what emerges from this attitude can be an extremely robust portfolio supported by more- than-skin-deep diversification … a portfolio that balances historical risks and rewards rather than stories of risk and reward, a portfolio that looks for diversification in the investment DNA of a security or strategy as well as the asset class of a security or strategy. On offense, look for investment opportunities where you have information that reflects an economic reality at odds with the public voices driving a market phenomenon. This is where you will find alpha. This is where you can generate potential returns when the economic reality is ultimately revealed as just that – reality – and the voices shift into some other story and the market matches what’s real. These opportunities tend to be discrete and occasional trades as opposed to long-standing strategies, because that’s the nature of the information beast – you will rarely capture it in a time and place where you can act on it. Almost by definition, if the information is being generated by a public voice it’s probably not actionable, or at the very least the asymmetric risk/reward will have been terribly muted. But when you find an opportunity like this, when you have a private insight or access to someone who does against a market backdrop of some price extreme … well, that’s a beautiful thing. Rare, but worth waiting for. I’ll close with a few selected lines from TS Eliot’s The Hollow Men, because I’m always happy to celebrate a time when poets wore white-tie and tails, and because I think he’s got something important to say about information and communication, authenticity and deception. Between the idea And the reality Between the motion And the act Falls the Shadow What is the Shadow? I believe it’s the barrier that communication inevitably creates among humans, including the mental barriers that we raise in our own minds in our internal communications – our thoughts and self-awareness. Sometimes the Shadow is slight, as between two earnest and committed people speaking to each other with as much authenticity as each can muster, and sometimes the Shadow is overwhelming, as between a disembodied, mass-mediated crowd and a central banker using communication as “policy”. Wherever you find a Shadow you will find a hollowness, and right now the Shadows are spreading. This, I believe, creates both the greatest challenge and opportunity of our investment lives … not to pierce Eliot’s Shadows or to succumb to Conrad’s Heart of Darkness in our hollow markets, but to come to terms with their existence and permanence … to evade their influence as best we can, all the while looking for opportunities to profit from their influence on others. This article originally appeared at Epsilon Theory.  Copyright 2014. Follow Epsilon Theory on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
skenmy via www.flickr.com creative commonsBillions of dollars are flowing into online advertising. But marketers also are confronting an uncomfortable reality: rampant fraud. About 36% of all Web traffic is considered fake, the product of computers hijacked by viruses and programmed to visit sites, according to estimates cited recently by the Interactive Advertising Bureau trade group. – Wall Street Journal, “The Secret About Online Ad Traffic: One-Third Is Bogus,”March 23, 2014 Over the last decade, institutional management of equity portfolios has increased from 54% to 81%. … Institutional buys and sells accounted for 47% of trading volume between 2001 and 2006, but only 29% of trading volume since 2008 ....One of the most significant results of the tension between fewer market participants and larger parent order sizes is that the share of ‘real’ trading volume has declined by around 40% in the last five years.– Morgan Stanley QDS, “Real Trading Volume”, Charles Crow and Simon Emrich,April 11, 2012 I first saw Apocalypse Now as a college freshman with two roommates, a couple of years after it had been released, and I can still recall the dazed pang of shock and exhaustion I felt when we stumbled out of the theatre. Nobody said anything on the drive back to campus. We were each lost in our thoughts, trying to process what we had just seen. Our focus was on Marlon Brando’s Col. Kurtz, of course, because we were 18-year old boys and he was a larger than life villain or anti-hero or superman or … something … we weren’t quite sure what he was, only that we couldn’t forget him. When I reflect on the movie today, though, I find myself thinking less about Kurtz than I do about Martin Sheen’s Capt. Willard. Both Kurtz and Willard were self-aware. They had no illusions about their own actions or motivations, including the betrayals and murders they carried out. Both Kurtz and Willard saw through the veneer of the Vietnam War. They had no illusions regarding the essential hollowness of the entire enterprise, and they saw clearly the heart of darkness and horrific will that was left when you stripped away the surface trappings. So what made Willard stick with the mission? How was Willard able to navigate within a world he knew was playing him falsely, while Kurtz could not? I don’t want to say that I admire Willard, because there’s nothing really admirable there, and this isn’t going to be a web-lite note along the lines of “Three Things that Every Investor Should Learn from Apocalypse Now”. But there is a quality to Willard that I find useful in recalling whenever I am confronted with hard evidence that the world is playing me falsely. Or at least it helps keep me from shaving my head and going rogue. The WSJ article cited above – where it now seems that more than one-third of all Web traffic is fake, generated by bots and zombies to create ad click-throughs and fake popularity – is a good example of what I’m talking about. One-third of all Web traffic? Fake? How is that possible? I mean … I understand how it’s technologically possible, but how is it possible that this sort of fraud has been going on for so long and to such a gargantuan degree that I don’t know about it or somehow feel it? I’m sure that anyone in e-commerce or network security will chuckle at my naïveté, but I was really rocked by this article. What else have I been told or led to believe about the Web is a lie? But then I remember conversations I have with non-investor friends when I describe to them how little of trading volume today is real, i.e., between an actual buyer and an actual seller. I describe to them how as much as 70% of the trading activity in markets today – activity that generates the constantly changing up and down arrows and green and red numbers they see and react to on CNBC – is just machines talking to other machines, shifting shares around for “liquidity provision” or millisecond arbitrage opportunities. Even among real investors, individuals or institutions who own a portfolio of exposures and aren’t simply middlemen of one sort or another, so much of what we do is better described as positioning rather than investing, where we are rebalancing or tweaking a remarkably static portfolio against this generic risk or that generic risk rather than expressing an active opinion on the pros or cons of fractional ownership of a real-world company. Inevitably these non-investor friends are as slack-jawed at my picture of modern market structure as I am when I read this article about modern Web traffic structure. How can this be, they ask? I shrug. There is no answer. It just is. My sense is that if you talk to a professional in any walk of life today, whether it’s technology or finance or medicine or law or government or whatever, you will hear a similar story of hollowness in their industry. The trappings, the facades, the faux this and faux that, the dislocation between public narrative and private practice … it’s everywhere. I understand that authenticity has always been a rare bird on an institutional or societal level. But there is something about the aftermath of the Great Recession, a something that is augmented by Big Data technology, that has made it okay to embrace public misdirection and miscommunication as an acceptable policy “tool”. It’s telling when Jon Stewart, a comedian, is the most authentic public figure I know. It’s troubling when I have to assume that everything I hear from any politician or any central banker is being said for effect, not for the straightforward expression of an honest opinion. The question is not “Is it a Hollow World?”. If you’re reading Epsilon Theory I’m pretty sure that I don’t have to spend a lot of words convincing you of that fact. Nor is the question “How do we fix the Hollow World?”. Or at least that’s not my question. Sorry, but being a revolutionary is a young man’s game, and the pay is really bad. More seriously, I don’t think it’s possible to organize mass society in a non-hollow fashion without doing something about the “mass” part. So given that we are stuck in the world as it is, my question is “How do we adapt to a Hollow World?”. As Conrad wrote, the question is not how to get cured, but how to live. How do we make our way through the battlefield of modern economics and politics, a world that we know is hollow and false in so many important ways, without losing our minds and ending up in a metaphorical jungle muttering “the horror, the horror” to ourselves? Two suggestions for adapting to the Hollow Market piece of a Hollow World, one defensive in nature and one for offense. On defense, recognize that modern markets are, in fact, quite hollow and everything you hear from a public voice is being said for effect. But that doesn’t mean that the underlying economic activity of actual human beings and actual companies is similarly fake or bogus. The trick, I think, is to recognize the modern market for what it IS – a collection of socially constructed symbols, exactly like the chips in a casino, that we wager within games that combine a little skill with a lot of chance. There is a relationship between the chips and the real-world economic activity, but that relationship is never perfect and often exists as only the slimmest of threads. The games themselves are driven by the stories we are told, and there are rules to this game-playing that you can learn. But it’s a hard game to play, and it’s even harder to find a great game-player who will bet your chips on your behalf. A better strategy for most, I think, is to adopt an attitude of what I call profound agnosticism, where we assume that ALL of the stories we hear (including the narratives of economic science) are equally suspect, and we make no pretense of predicting what stories will pop up tomorrow or how the market will shape itself around them. What we want is to have as much connection to that underlying economic activity of actual human beings and actual companies as possible, and as little connection as possible to the game-playing and story-telling, no matter how strongly we’ve been trained to believe in this story or that. I think what emerges from this attitude can be an extremely robust portfolio supported by more- than-skin-deep diversification … a portfolio that balances historical risks and rewards rather than stories of risk and reward, a portfolio that looks for diversification in the investment DNA of a security or strategy as well as the asset class of a security or strategy. On offense, look for investment opportunities where you have information that reflects an economic reality at odds with the public voices driving a market phenomenon. This is where you will find alpha. This is where you can generate potential returns when the economic reality is ultimately revealed as just that – reality – and the voices shift into some other story and the market matches what’s real. These opportunities tend to be discrete and occasional trades as opposed to long-standing strategies, because that’s the nature of the information beast – you will rarely capture it in a time and place where you can act on it. Almost by definition, if the information is being generated by a public voice it’s probably not actionable, or at the very least the asymmetric risk/reward will have been terribly muted. But when you find an opportunity like this, when you have a private insight or access to someone who does against a market backdrop of some price extreme … well, that’s a beautiful thing. Rare, but worth waiting for. I’ll close with a few selected lines from TS Eliot’s The Hollow Men, because I’m always happy to celebrate a time when poets wore white-tie and tails, and because I think he’s got something important to say about information and communication, authenticity and deception. Between the idea And the reality Between the motion And the act Falls the Shadow What is the Shadow? I believe it’s the barrier that communication inevitably creates among humans, including the mental barriers that we raise in our own minds in our internal communications – our thoughts and self-awareness. Sometimes the Shadow is slight, as between two earnest and committed people speaking to each other with as much authenticity as each can muster, and sometimes the Shadow is overwhelming, as between a disembodied, mass-mediated crowd and a central banker using communication as “policy”. Wherever you find a Shadow you will find a hollowness, and right now the Shadows are spreading. This, I believe, creates both the greatest challenge and opportunity of our investment lives … not to pierce Eliot’s Shadows or to succumb to Conrad’s Heart of Darkness in our hollow markets, but to come to terms with their existence and permanence … to evade their influence as best we can, all the while looking for opportunities to profit from their influence on others. This article originally appeared at Epsilon Theory.  Copyright 2014. Follow Epsilon Theory on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
If you want to have a comfortable retirement, it is very important to begin saving early. It's a point that can't be reiterated enough. Here is another example why. Consider two hypothetical savers, Emily and Dave. Emily puts $200 per month into a retirement account with an estimated 6% rate of return starting at 25. Dave starts saving $200 per month at 35, just 10 years after Emily.  Both continue to add $200 each month until they retire at 65. By the time they are 65, Emily has contributed $96,000, while Dave has contributed $72,000. Here's the trajectory of both of those accounts: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz Emily started saving just 10 years earlier and put in only about 33% more money into her account than Dave put in his. But by the time they are both ready to retire, Emily has almost twice as much as Dave — Emily has $402,492, and Dave has $203,118. That extra 10 years of compounding returns has made Emily's situation far better than Dave's when they are 65.   FREE AppDownload
"Exposure: Inside the Olympus Scandal" Months after becoming Olympus's first non-Japanese president and then CEO in 2011, British executive Michael Woodford called for an investigation into allegations that the tech company had covered up losses dating back to the 1990s. Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa and other board members opposed him and ultimately voted to dismiss him and told him to leave Japan. It was not long, however, before a $1.7 billion accounting scandal unraveled, taking down Kikukawa and other executives and causing Olympus' stock price to fall more than 75%. Woodford recounts his experiences in "Exposure: Inside the Olympus Scandal: How I Went from CEO to Whistleblower," now out in paperback, with a movie on the way. A chilling account of his showdown with the board is excepted below. As I entered the Monolith building I glanced at my phone: it was 8.41, Friday, 14 October. I entered the lift in silence, a deference to the etiquette in Japan, where everyone seems to keep fixed, unreadable expressions in such situations. I wondered if my Japanese colleagues around me knew what was about to happen. I got out on the fifteenth floor, walked the twenty or so yards to the electronically controlled double doors into the executive suite. Normally I would enter the secretaries’ office by the reception desk and say: ‘Ohayou gozaimasu’ (good morning), and then, having exhausted my Japanese repertoire, would in English ask the four secretaries who shared the office how they were and spend a few minutes talking and joking. That day I went straight to my own office. There was a knock at the door and Michiko entered. She had clearly been crying. I could see in her eyes that those wretched men had told her what was going to happen and no doubt had forbidden her from saying anything to me. In that moment I felt such warmth for her, remembering all the funny times we had together. We had laughed a lot when we had gone out shopping to buy my tailor-made shirts (which were necessary to accommodate my long limbs), my fancy Porsche-designed electronic pepper and salt grinders and my beloved Nespresso coffee machine. Every morning before I arrived she would go down to the building’s subterranean shopping arcade and in Cafe´ Croissant buy me my favourite egg croissant for breakfast. She knew how to look after me – a useless gaijin who didn’t speak Japanese – and had made my time in Tokyo go smoothly. She loyally watched my back, and now she couldn’t stop her own colleagues from stabbing me right between the shoulder blades. But she was completely professional. She didn’t say a word. I wanted to say goodbye to her properly but subsequently found out she had been instructed to go across the road to wait in the Keio Plaza Hotel, until I had left the building. They didn’t want her to bump into me when I came out of my last board meeting as president. The meeting was scheduled for nine o’clock, and in a culture where nobody is late for anything, ever, the boardroom was full at the appointed hour. The roll call that day was thirteen board members, two translators, four attending auditors and one secretariat member. But somebody was conspicuously absent. Having called this extraordinary meeting, Kikukawa was late. Late? How could he be late? At 9.02 I looked to my right and caught Hisashi Mori’s eye. His gaze, as ever, offered nothing. I made an exaggerated play of checking my watch and raising my eyebrows. He leaned slightly towards me and, in a feeble attempt to humour me, asked about my visit to Tohoku [a region badly damaged by the earthquake and tsunami] the preceding day. ‘Michael, how was it? You must have been affected?’ With my mind fresh from the scenes of devastation I had witnessed the day before, I felt an overwhelming revulsion that he would use this of all subjects to try and distract me. A low-level fury rose from my stomach. In a raised voice, and deliberately omitting the honorific ‘san’, I replied: ‘Mori, stop playing games. Just get on with it.’ Realizing that I knew my fate, Mori shrugged nervously and scuttled off to find his master. Kikukawa eventually arrived, with Mori dutifully in his wake. It was 9.07. Kikukawa waddled in like a duck, wearing a shiny blue suit. He nodded at those present, and anxiously, perhaps even a touch excitedly, fiddled with his tie. I immediately recognized the tie. It was one of the three he had recently bought from the Imperial Hotel boutique, at a price of $500 each, about which he had later boasted. A little puffed-up duck in a five-hundred-buck tie. He didn’t go to his normal chair, immediately to my right, but stood at the podium as if he were to give a routine PowerPoint presentation on the last quarter’s financial results. He cleared his throat. ‘Today’s board meeting to discuss concerns relating to M&amp;A activity has been cancelled.’ (I was listening in my earpiece to the translation.) ‘There is instead to be a new agenda: firstly the dismissal of Mr Woodford as president, CEO and representative director.’ I waited for a ripple of murmured astonishment, perhaps even dissent. Everyone stayed silent. Kikukawa put the motion, as company law directed, to a vote, and almost before he had finished speaking, all fifteen members simultaneously raised their hands in approval. I was reminded of young children in a classroom who know the answer to a simple question, all stretching their arms up, desperate for the teacher to call on them. There was to be no discussion, no debate, just acquiescence. Kikukawa was now talking again. ‘Mr Woodford,’ he said, looking into the middle distance, ‘is not permitted to make any comments here, because he has a vested interest in the outcome.’ Oddly, I had an overwhelming desire to laugh. I was in a room full of people – of colleagues, some of whom I had known for over thirty years – who were now operating beyond all the recognizable codes of conduct, not just in Japan but anywhere in the business world. I stared at Kikukawa: at the cut of his expensive suit, at the precision of the knot in that silk tie, at the curt, pinched smile that played beneath his nose, and the reflection of the overhead lighting on the lenses of his glasses. He struck me as a ludicrous figure, and so delusional. He resembled little more than the captain of a sink- ing ship who believed that by throwing out the deadweight, his vessel would suddenly right itself and resume its calm drift into the horizon. He read out a second motion: ‘Mr Woodford is stripped of all his directorships of Olympus’s subsidiary companies, including Olym- pus Corporation of the Americas and Olympus Europa Holding GmbH’ (the American and European organizations at both of which I was CEO and chairman of the board). Tellingly, he went on to announce, ‘Hisashi Mori will replace Mr Woodford in these roles.’ Mori, I thought. The Emperor’s trusted sidekick, a bureaucrat, a creature of the corridors – he knows nothing about the real business of customers and products. It was no comfort to know that I was making history, for the forced removal of a company president is almost unheard of in Japan. No one is let go unless they are guilty of major malfeasance such as when, in 1997, the chairman of Japan’s then largest bank, Dai-Ichi Kangyo, was convicted of lending billions of yen to members of organized crime groups. So why were Kikukawa and his board cronies acting this irrationally? They knew waves of publicity would be generated by my dismissal, but they were obviously scared of something far worse. But now they were going to hold a press conference to announce their bizarre decision to the world. "Exposure: Inside the Olympus Scandal"I checked my watch; it was 9.15 a.m. Just eight minutes had elapsed. An eight-minute corporate execution. I was now officially the ex-president. I remained a director, albeit one without portfolio, thanks to a quirk in Japanese corporate law whereby, if you don’t resign, only the shareholders can remove your directorship. I rose quietly, left the room and, deliberately holding my head high, walked back to my office. I immediately opened the safe in the corner of the room, retrieved my bank book, about £1,000 worth of yen and, most importantly, my Japanese name stamp. If massive fraud had been taking place, the very last thing I wanted was these people getting hold of my name stamp. The red Japanese characters it leaves on a page are legally as good as my signature and are crucial for endorsing all official documents in Japan. Made out of wood and beautifully painted, the stamp was the size and width of my index finger. I kept it in a small leather box with a red ink pad. Using it always reminded me of my childhood Post Office set, but it was no plaything. The only thing on my mind was to escape as quickly as possible. I just couldn’t understand why the board members were acting in this way. They had seemed scared, but of what? I was confused and disorientated. My thoughts turned again to the second Facta article, and its suggestion of connections to organized crime, to the Yakuza. I was both frightened and angry. Somebody entered my office, and I turned to see Hironobu Kawamata, who in effect fulfilled the role of Olympus’s chief financial officer. He was accompanied by the recently appointed head of the secretarial division, a quiet and unassuming man who had clearly been ‘volunteered’ to make this encounter two against one. He remained silent during the exchange that followed. Kawamata was smiling broadly enough to reveal his teeth. Japanese people often smile or laugh when nervous, but this was not the case. There was too much relish in his expression. ‘Michael, there are a few points I need to go through with you,’ he said, as if what had just taken place in the boardroom was routine. ‘Firstly, I want your two phones.’ His manner was so rough that I became angry again. I looked him in the eye and, passing him the Samsung Galaxy, which I had used most frequently in Japan, said, ‘You can have this one.’ I could not help but add, ‘I’ve already wiped it.’ My other phone – an iPhone – had been issued to me by the British subsidiary. I held it up. ‘I’ll keep this one because my wife will be worried if she can’t make contact with me.’ I walked towards him and with my face just a few inches from his I said, ‘Or are you going to take it off me? Are you a policeman?’ He buckled slightly, which pumped me up all the more. I wanted to shout, Who the f--- do you think you are? My fingers curled, I clenched my hands at my sides. Kawamata took a step back, relocated his resolve and demanded my two Sony Vaio laptops. It was my turn to smile. I told him, ‘I know your games and they have already been sent back securely to London. I’ll drop them off at KeyMed [Olympus’s UK headquarters] once they’ve been wiped of all data.’ Numerous colleagues from around the world had assisted or written to me, expressing in the most explicit language their contempt for the Olympus board’s behaviour, so my overwhelming priority was to protect them. Next, Kawamata demanded that I relinquish my company-issued credit card. I passed it to him with no comment. ‘Your apartment,’ he said, moving through his to-do list, ‘you have to vacate it by the end of the weekend.’ This I found extraordinary: I paid more than half of the rent personally. I stayed calm, telling him that I would pack a bag and return the keys in due course. Lastly, he said, ‘And by the way, when you go to the airport, you are not allowed to use Nick. You can take the airport bus.’ His smile had returned. Over my many years visiting Japan, I had never seen or heard of anything like this. This aggressive rudeness was all so very atypical, simply not the way business was carried out here. My efforts to highlight wrongdoings had brought out a bullying mob mentality in my colleagues. My hands turned cold. I wanted to get out. Kawamata did not accompany me the fifteen floors down to the ground floor, and for that I was grateful. I breathed heavily through my nose as the lift descended, my hands like ice, a cold sweat breaking out across my forehead and the back of my neck. Once at the foyer I strode briskly from the lift across the gleaming marble floor and out into an unseasonably warm and sunny Tokyo morning. Rush hour was over, so I had no trouble hailing a taxi. It was a relief to be inside, amid the curious frilly white doilies that cover the seats, and being driven away. I gave the driver a laminated card with my address in Shibuya, his hands white-gloved and resting at a calm ten to two on the steering wheel, and resisted the urge to ask him to drive quickly. We arrived at Grosvenor Place and there were two men in suits loitering downstairs in the foyer. They looked hefty and officious. One of them gave me a sidelong glance. Did they have all their fingers? I went upstairs. My apartment, technically no longer mine, was silent. I went straight to the bedroom and packed my bags, pulling clothes from drawers and cupboards, taking photos of my wife and children and stuffing them into a case, my ears alert to any sounds outside the window or the front door. I crossed the floor to the kitchen, sud- denly feeling thirsty; I drank deep from the tap. Zipping up my bags, I hesitated by the front door. I took a very careful look through the fisheye lens spy hole which revealed an empty corridor. I opened the door, stepped out, and allowed it to close quietly behind me. Back downstairs, the two suspicious men still loitered. I passed the reception desk where the three uniformed ladies bowed, not knowing it would be the last time they would see me. Out on the street and hurrying along the pavement, I was soon sweating as I lugged my large silver suitcase in one hand and my black leather briefcase in the other. Reprinted from EXPOSURE: Inside the Olympus Scandal: How I Went from CEO to Whistleblower by Michael Woodford with permission of Portfolio, a member of Penguin Group (USA) LLC. Copyright (c) Michael Woodford, 2012. FREE AppDownload
Sarabeth'sHere's something we just learned ... In the Smithsonian Magazine's fascinating piece on the origin of popular hangover foods, the author writes Eggs Benedict was apparently invented by a hungover Wall Street stockbroker. From the Smithsonian Mag:   In 1942, The New Yorker published an article claiming the dish had its roots in a man named Lemuel Benedict, a Wall Street worker known for his eccentric-for-the-time lifestyle choices (like marrying a woman who worked as an opera singer) and heavy partying habits. After one especially raucous night of partying, Lemuel awoke in the morning and went to breakfast at the Waldorf Hotel, where he invented his own breakfast sandwich of two poached eggs, bacon, buttered toast, and a pitcher of hollandaise sauce. Lemuel’s inventive sandwich caught the eye of the Waldorf’s famous maître d’hôtel Oscar, who sampled the sandwich, made some personal alterations (ham was swapped for bacon, an English muffin for the toast), put the sandwich on the menu, and sailed peacefully into history, much to the delight of hungover brunch attendees everywhere. The other story about the origin of the popular egg dish is that it was invented by Pope Benedict XIII. FREE AppDownload
lululemon on FlickrThings are looking up at Lululemon after a tough year.  Last spring, the athletic-attire retailer recalled 17% of its pants for being too sheer. Longtime CEO Christine Day left, and founder Chip Wilson stepped down as chairman after making controversial comments about customers.  Analysts at RBC Capital Markets believe that Lululemon is moving past quality control issues and bad press. The company reports earnings on Thursday.  Here are a few reasons to be optimistic about Lululemon, according to analysts Howard Tubin and Courtney Wilson.  1. The brand is strong. The bank's survey suggests that shoppers are still willing to pay a premium for Lululemon products. Shoppers also indicated that they planned to purchase lots of Lululemon in the future. This indicates that despite growing competition from brands like Under Armour and Athleta, Lululemon's brand is still dominant.  2. Room for growth. Lululemon only has 170 stores, and most are in North America. "We believe the runway for growth remains long and the brand remains under-penetrated," the analysts write. "Given the relatively small store footprint both in the U.S. and outside of North America, we believe store openings will likely continue."  3. Managers in place. Last year, Lululemon's CEO and chief product officer both left. But new CEO Laurent Potdevin has been on the job for several months, and the brand has also hired a new chief product officer. Hiring these important managers will undoubtedly have a positive impact on Lululemon, RBC writes.  4. New assortments. Lululemon has exciting new product offerings that will lure customers to stores. The brand has a new "&amp; Go" line of athletic-inspired casual-wear. This line has been well-received because it is both fashionable and practical.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man walks past an information screen on display inside the office of the Moscow Exchange in the capital MoscowNEW YORK (Reuters) - Rising tension between Russia and the West has rattled the country's stock and bond markets, but some big money managers see the turbulence as an opportunity. Russia's equity market has plummeted 18 percent so far this year. Foreigners dumped the country's stocks, bonds and the rouble following the early March invasion of Crimea, a territory of Ukraine. It now faces economic sanctions that could worsen if the crisis escalates. Investors have reacted with their feet. The rouble is down nearly 9 percent on the year, and investors have pulled about $4.4 billion from stocks and $4.1 billion from bonds between September 2013 to the middle of March, according to the latest data from EPFR Global. "Russia's stock market right now is one of the cheapest in the world, and probably one of the most hated," said investor and commodities guru Jim Rogers, chairman of Rogers Holdings, in Singapore. "This is the time to buy Russia." Those betting on Russia now should have a long-term horizon. After citizens in the Crimean peninsula voted for annexation by Russia, the United States and European Union reacted by issuing sanctions that, while limited in scope, could be broadened. Russia's economy has weakened as inflation has risen and investments have stalled. IMF data shows the country's reserve assets declined to $493.3 billion in February from $509.6 billion in December as it has defended its currency. The central bank raised interest rates by 1.5 percentage points to stem the ruble's fall. Rogers, who has been investing in Russia for the last 1-1/2 years, said he bought Russian stocks last week. He said if more sanctions are imposed and the equities market declines further, there would be more buying opportunities in Russia. Rogers said he is looking for non-energy companies - a tall order considering the RTS Index of 51 leading Russian companies is heavily skewed toward energy (58 percent of the index) and basic materials (13 percent). Estimates from emerging and frontier market specialists FMG Funds, based in Malta, show that Russian stocks are trading at a price-earnings multiple of about four times 2014 earnings, with an annual dividend yield of 5 percent. By comparison, the United States trades with a P/E ratio of nearly 16 times earnings and a dividend yield of just 2 percent, FMG data show. FMG, which has $150 million in emerging and frontier market assets, is looking to scoop up more Russian stocks. "We believe that Russian equities are at levels which make them a compelling buy and that patience will be rewarded," said FMG chief investment officer Joe Portelli. The largest equities in the RTS Index are Gazprom OAO and NK Lukoil OAO, each of which make up about 13 percent of the index. Gazprom's forward price-to-earnings ratio is just 2.6, far lower than most other BRIC-nation energy companies, according to Thomson Reuters data. "Russian stock prices could triple and they would still be at a valuation discount. But Russian companies are not nearing bankruptcy," said Chris Darbyshire, chief investment officer at Seven Investment Management in London, which overseas assets of about $10 billion. "In fact, expectations for Russian earnings this year have remained relatively steady, whereas expectations for most developed markets, including the United States, have fallen." Seven Investment invests in a broad range of emerging market stock and bond benchmarks, in which Russia represents about 6 percent and 10 percent of the total indexes. "We would add (to positions) at some point," Darbyshire said. NO ESCALATION SEEN The wild card is whether the saber-rattling between Russia and Ukraine will intensify, and how much it hurts the Russian economy. Growth there has slowed to less than 2 percent, inflation has risen and capital outflows have escalated. Some investors are in a defensive mode. Standish Mellon Asset Management, which manages more than $180 billion in fixed income assets, pared its Russian dollar-denominated and local bond holdings during the recent crisis. "We thought that whatever valuations we have in Russia, it's better to exercise some caution," said Cathy Elmore, emerging market portfolio manager and senior sovereign debt analyst at Standish in Boston. "We need to be aware of this political layer that has been driving valuations." Crimeans voted to secede from Ukraine and join Russia in a March 16 referendum. The United States and EU, worried that Russia could seek to take control of parts of eastern and southern Ukraine, have warned they could impose broader sanctions affecting entire sectors of Russia's economy. "It's probably fair to say that the crisis will take its toll on (Russian) GDP (gross domestic product growth)," said Yakov Arnopolin, vice president and portfolio manager at Goldman Sachs Asset Management in New York. At the peak of the Russian crisis in early March, the spread on Russian sovereign debt relative to Treasuries had widened to about 350 basis points on the JP Morgan EMBI+ benchmark debt index. It has since narrowed to about 260 basis points. Yields on 10-year sovereign Russia debt climbed to 9.62 percent last week, the highest in about 2-1/2 years. It has since fallen to 9.17 percent, still an elevated level. "On the sovereign and corporate debt level, Russia's indebtedness remains very low. The impact on the economy is much more limited than what the current spreads imply," said Goldman's Arnopolin. Goldman, which holds both Russian and Ukraine debt, said it has not made changes to its portfolio, maintaining a small overweight on Russia's dollar-denominated debt. The firm has more than $349 billion in fixed income, currency, and commodity assets. "Russia is not going away. This is a classic example of the market panicking, of throwing the baby out with the bath water," said FMG's Portelli. "There's a very good possibility that if you have a three- to five-year horizon, you'll double your money in Russia." (Reporting by Daniel Bases and Gertrude Chavez-Dreyfuss; Editing by David Gaffen and Dan Grebler) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFormer China's Politburo Standing Committee Member Zhou Yongkang attends the closing ceremony of the NPC in BeijingBEIJING (Reuters) - Chinese authorities have seized assets worth at least 90 billion yuan ($14.5 billion) from family members and associates of retired domestic security tsar Zhou Yongkang, who is at the center of China's biggest corruption scandal in more than six decades, two sources said. More than 300 of Zhou's relatives, political allies, proteges and staff have also been taken into custody or questioned in the past four months, the sources, who have been briefed on the investigation, told Reuters. The sheer size of the asset seizures and the scale of the investigations into the people around Zhou - both unreported until now - make the corruption probe unprecedented in modern China and would appear to show that President Xi Jinping is tackling graft at the highest levels. But it may also be driven partly by political payback after Zhou angered leaders such as Xi by opposing the ouster of former high-flying politician Bo Xilai, who was jailed for life in September for corruption and abuse of power. Zhou, 71, has been under virtual house arrest since authorities began formally investigating him late last year. He is the most senior Chinese politician to be ensnared in a corruption investigation since the Communist Party swept to power in 1949. "It's the ugliest in the history of the New China," said one of the sources, who has ties to the leadership, requesting anonymity to avoid repercussions for speaking to the foreign media about elite politics. The government has yet to make any official statement about Zhou or the case against him and it has not been possible to contact Zhou, his family, associates or staff for comment. It is not clear if any of them have lawyers. The party's anti-corruption watchdog and the prosecutor's office did not respond to requests for comment. In the secretive world of China's Communist Party, targets of its investigations usually disappear, often for months or even years, until an official announcement is made. Xi ordered a task force formed in late November or early December to look into accusations against Zhou, sources have previously told Reuters. They have not said what the allegations were except that they were related to violating party discipline, official jargon for corruption. A third source with ties to the leadership said Zhou had refused to cooperate with investigators, insisting he was the victim of a power struggle. "Zhou Yongkang is tough and claims its political persecution," the source said. Zhou rose through the ranks of China's oil and gas sector before joining the elite Politburo Standing Committee in 2007, where as domestic security chief his budget exceeded defense spending. He retired in 2012 and was last seen at an alumni event at the China University of Petroleum on October 1. The first two sources said prosecutors and the party's anti-corruption watchdog had frozen bank accounts with deposits totaling 37 billion yuan and seized domestic and overseas bonds with a combined value of 51 billion yuan after raiding homes in Beijing, Shanghai and five provinces. Investigators had also confiscated about 300 apartments and villas worth around 1.7 billion yuan, antiques and contemporary paintings with a market value of 1 billion yuan and more than 60 vehicles, the sources added. Other items seized included expensive liquor, gold, silver and cash in local and foreign currencies. The seized assets belonged to those in custody, the sources said, without saying how many people in total had been detained compared to just questioned. Most of the assets were not in Zhou's name, they added. According to the sources, the seized assets had a combined value of at least 90 billion yuan, although it was unclear what share of that total was ill-gotten and would be turned over to the state. The amount eventually made public could be smaller to avoid embarrassing the party and angering ordinary Chinese, the sources said. Such asset seizures, while large, are not uncommon in China, where excess has often been revealed from graft probes in recent years. In January, the respected Chinese magazine Caixin said authorities had seized a solid gold statue of Mao Zedong among other things from the mansion of a senior military officer who has been under investigation since he was sacked in 2012. The first two sources added that more than 10 of Zhou's relatives had been detained. They included Zhou's one-time television reporter wife Jia Xiaoye, his eldest son from a previous marriage Zhou Bin, Zhou Bin's in-laws and Zhou Yongkang's brother. About 10 officials who held a rank equivalent to at least vice minister were also under investigation, the sources said. Among them were Jiang Jiemin, former chairman of both state energy giant PetroChina and its parent China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC), former Vice Minister of Public Security Li Dongsheng and Ji Wenlin, ex-vice governor of the southernmost island province of Hainan. Chinese state media has announced that all three were being investigated for serious violations of discipline. They were either proteges or aides to Zhou. Reuters has been unable to contact the three men. It's unclear if they have lawyers. More than 20 of Zhou's bodyguards, secretaries and drivers had also been detained, the sources said. Many other family members and associates had been questioned. Since becoming head of the party in late 2012 and then president a year ago, Xi has vowed to go after both powerful "tigers" and lowly "flies" in an effort to crack down on the corruption he says threatens the party's very existence. But Xi is in a dilemma over whether to put Zhou on trial lest it further undermine public faith in the party, the three sources said, referring to the growing disillusionment in China over rampant graft and abuse of power. Xi would also risk alienating other party elders who fear that they and their families could be next, political analysts say. Putting someone as powerful as Zhou in the dock would be a political decision that only Xi could make after getting the consensus of senior party members, Xi's predecessors and other retired top officials, they say. In ordering the investigation, Xi broke with an unwritten rule that incumbent and retired members of the Standing Committee were immune from prosecution. As a member of the Standing Committee, the apex of power in China, and a former domestic security chief, Zhou would have intimate knowledge of the skeletons in the party's closet. It is still unclear exactly why Zhou has been targeted, though an early sign that he might have overstepped was when he retired and the position of domestic security chief was dropped from the Standing Committee. Sources have also said Zhou angered Xi and other leaders over Bo Xilai, whose career was ended in 2012 by a murder scandal in which his wife was eventually convicted of poisoning a British businessman who had been a family friend. Before Bo's downfall, Zhou had recommended that Bo succeed him as domestic security chief, multiple sources with direct knowledge of the matter have said. (Editing by Dean Yates) FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Paul J. RichardsNEW competitors always ruffle a few feathers. The unique thing about Uber, a new taxi-market player, is that it seems to have annoyed some of its customers as much as the incumbent cabbies it threatens. The problem is its "surge pricing", which can make the cost of Uber rides jump to many times the normal fare at weekends and on holidays. Gouging customers like this, critics reckon, will eventually make them flee, denting Uber's business. Microeconomics suggests that although Uber's model does have a flaw, its dynamic pricing should be welcomed. Taxi markets have long needed a shake-up. In theory, entry should be easy--all that is needed is a car and a driving license--with new drivers keeping cab fares close to costs. Yet in many cities, cabs are far from that competitive ideal. Decades of regulation conspire to keep entrants out. In New York a pair of taxi medallions sold at a 2013 auction for $2.5m; many other cities have similar schemes. In London "the knowledge", a test of familiarity with the city's streets which GPS has made redundant but drivers still have to pass, can take four years to complete. Taxi markets often end up suspiciously clubby, with cabs in short supply and fat profits for the vehicle owners. Antitrust concerns have been raised in Australia, Ireland and Bulgaria among others. Uber aims to change all this. Launched in San Francisco in 2010 it lets passengers hail drivers from their smartphones--a move requiring even less effort than extending your arm. Some vehicles are not so much taxis as private cars that Uber has vetted. The convenience of hailing a cab from the comfort of a sofa or bar stool has given the service a loyal fan-base, but it comes at a cost. Most of Uber's prices are slightly cheaper than a street-hailed cab. But when demand spikes, the surge prices kick in: rates during the busiest times, such as New Year's Eve, can be seven times normal levels, and minimum fares of up to $175 apply. Critics of Uber's pricing are treading a well-worn path: setting tailored prices for the same good--price discrimination--often causes howls from consumer groups. It seems unfair when the charges for drugs vary across countries, the price of train tickets varies with the buyer's age, or, as in Uber's case, the price varies depending on the time that the journey is booked. But price discrimination is not necessarily a bad thing, as a 2006 paper by Mark Armstrong of Oxford University explained. A firm offering a single price to all customers faces a trade-off: lowering prices raises sales but means offering a cut to customers prepared to pay more. Maximizing profits can often mean lowering supply: goods are not provided to cheapskate shoppers so that more can be made from high-rollers. Customers who value the good at more than it costs to produce might miss out in a one-price-fits-all system--as many punters who have tried to find a regular cab on New Year's Eve will know. Uber's price surge aims to solve this. Like many technology companies Uber is a middleman. It links independent cab drivers with customers wanting a ride in the same way that Google links searchers and advertisers or eBay links sellers and bidders. The business model only works when successful matches are made. Because price spikes raise the pay Uber's drivers receive (they get 80% of any fare, if they drive their own car) more cars are tempted onto the roads at times of high demand. Prices are high at 2am at the weekend not just because punters are willing to pay more, but also because drivers don't want to work then. This strategy is common for firms that operate platforms or "two-sided" markets which link buyers and sellers, according to a 2006 paper by Jean-Charles Rochet and Jean Tirole of Toulouse University. Firms often tilt the market to give one side a particularly sweet deal: nightclubs let women in free to justify charging men a hefty fee, telephone directories are given away to create a readership which advertisers pay to access. The theory predicts each side's deal depends on two things: price sensitivity and how well-stocked each side of the market is. Uber's price surge fits perfectly: Friday-night revelers are hit by a double whammy since they are willing to pay up precisely when the pool of cabs is low. There is some evidence Uber's surge pricing is improving taxi markets. The firm says drivers are sensitive to price, so that the temptation to earn more is getting more Uber drivers onto the roads at antisocial hours. In San Francisco the number of private cars for hire has shot up, Uber says. This suggests surge pricing has encouraged the number of taxis to vary with demand, with the market getting bigger during peak hours. However, the inflexibility of Uber's matchmaking fee, a fixed 20% of the fare, means that it may fail to optimize the matching of demand and supply. In quiet times, when fares are low, it may work well. Suppose it links lots of potential passengers willing to pay $20 for a journey with drivers happy to travel for $15. A 20% ($4) fee leaves both sides content. But now imagine a Friday night, with punters willing to pay $100 for a ride, and drivers happy to take $90: there should be scope for a deal, but Uber's $20 fee means such journeys won't happen. Despite the revenues a matchmaking fee generates, it may not be Uber's best strategy. A fixed membership charge is often firms' best option in two-sided markets. By charging drivers a flat monthly fee Uber would generate revenue without creating a price wedge that gets in the way of matches. Since stumping up cash might put infrequent divers off, they could be offered a cheaper category of membership. Uber should keep its surge pricing in place. But to make the market as big as possible, and really revolutionize taxi travel, it might need to retune its fees. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
An apparently tiny rule change at two casinos in Las Vegas will have pretty serious negative consequences for gamblers. USPoker.com reported that the Las Vegas Sands company just changed its payout rules for blackjack at the Venetian and Palazzo casinos in a way that greatly hurts players' chances of coming out ahead. In blackjack, players receive two cards and then decide if they want to "hit" and get more cards, or "stand" and use the cards they already have. The goal is to get a higher score than the dealer, based on the values of the cards, without going over 21. Should you do this, you get a payout of 1-to-1; you win as much money as you bet. A special situation happens when the first two cards dealt are a 10 and an ace (valued at 11), adding up to 21 right away, a situation called a natural blackjack. In this case, the standard payout, and the old rule at the Venetian and Palazzo, is 3-to-2. This means that if someone bets $10, they will win $15 when getting a blackjack. Now, at blackjack tables at the Venetian and Palazzo, the payout for a blackjack has been reduced to 6-to-5; that $10 now just wins $12 instead of $15. This seems like a small change, but it has a pretty serious effect on the game. Natural blackjacks are not completely uncommon; about 1 in 20 hands will come up with a natural 21. The rule change means that the casinos will be paying out quite a bit less money. In terms of the industry, the rule change greatly increases the "house edge." This is how casinos make their money. Games are set up to be slightly unfair to players in the long run, paying out a little bit less in total than what is taken in. The house edge is usually expressed as a percentage. A house edge of 2% for a game means that, on average, for every $100 in bets made by players on that game, the house will pay out $98 to winners and keep $2. Using this handy blackjack house-edge calculator from gambling analysis site Wizard of Odds, we can see what will happen to players at the Venetian and Palazzo under the new rules. Here is the output from the calculator using a fairly standard set of Las Vegas blackjack rules, with the 3-to-2 natural blackjack payout: Wizard of Odds Note that in this case, the house edge — assuming a player is following the strategy that maximizes his or her chances of winning — is just 0.403%, and in a more realistic case where a player makes a few mistakes, the edge is 0.426%. For every $1,000 wagered, the casino will take about $4. Now, we use the same set of rules, but with the 6-to-5 payout: Wizard of Odds This is dramatically worse for the players. The house edge with a perfectly playing gambler is now 1.76%, with a realistic house edge of 1.79%. Now for every $1,000 wagered, the house is taking almost $18 — more than four times as much as with the standard blackjack payout. This makes playing blackjack at the Palazzo and the Venetian a far less attractive proposition. Players have much worse chances of coming out ahead. Fortunately, gamblers in Las Vegas will still be able to find ample casinos that still have the standard payout for a natural blackjack, making the cost of playing far lower.  FREE AppDownload
First, do not look for Friday’s data release to signal a material change in the overall conditions of the country’s labor market. The easy gains are now behind us, be they the endogenous cyclical improvements or what the Federal Reserve has been able to deliver acting essentially on its own. It is also harder sledding now because some of America’s worrisome problems are becoming more deeply and stubbornly embedded in the structure of the labor force. This is particularly true for long-term and youth unemployment; and it is highly regrettable and worrisome. Second, the headline numbers will tell us a lot less about the future course of the Federal Reserve, currently the most-engaged and influential economic policymaker. Earlier this month, Fed Chair Janet Yellen officially confirmed what some had anticipated: that, in determining future policy actions, the Fed was moving away from its (“U3”) unemployment threshold in two notable ways: first, by embracing a more holistic quantitative and qualitative assessment of the labor market; and second, by placing greater emphasis on countering an inflation rate that is too low. Third, these highly-anticipated monthly data no longer serve as good leading indicators of future economic conditions. It is not just about weaker policy signals. In addition, the jobs report no longer provides as good a pointer for the economic future. For a while, the information content of the jobs report had evolved from providing lagging insights to also serving as an important leading indicator. Today’s employment conditions, however, no longer act as a powerful driver of overall economic and political developments. That role has been transferred – to business investment when it comes to the considerable economic upside, and to geo-political risk on the downside. Taken together, these three factors point to monthly data that will confirm that, while gradually improving, America continues to face considerable challenges in the functioning of the labor market. Specifically, it remains stuck, hopefully just for now, in an unsatisfactory low-level equilibrium. Despite continued human suffering associated with this unfortunate situation, the immediate implications for both policies and the economic outlook are now harder to deduce and forecast. What remains easy to predict, however, is the tone of the press releases that the two political parties will rush to issue shortly after 8:30 am (eastern) on Friday: one will welcome the improvement, albeit gradual, in labor market conditions; the other will lament the lack of progress.   Mohamed A. El-Erian is the former CEO/co-CIO of PIMCO. He is Chief Economic Advisor at Allianz and member of its International Executive Committee, Chair of President Obama’s Global Development Council and author of the NYT/WSJ bestseller “When Markets Collide.” Follow him on twitter @elerianm FREE AppDownload
Here's a chart we haven't run in a long time. It shows the S&amp;P 500 vs. Initial Jobless Claims. Actually, we've flipped Initial Jobless Claims upside down, so that as they improve, they go up and to the right. For years and years the two lines have matched up quite nicely. And, well, that's pretty much where we're at today. Stocks are a tad off of recent highs. But basically, the trend has continued. As initial jobless claims keep getting better, so to does the stock market. The main significance of this: Don't listen to people who say the stock market doesn't reflect the improving economy. FRED FREE AppDownload
If there’s one lesson that everyone has realized over the last 5 years it’s that central banks are really, really powerful.  They are lenders of last resort, they can completely alter our portfolio composition, they can alter expectations, etc.  I think everyone would agree on that by now. The reason why I bring this up is because I think it gets lost in some discussions on what “monetary policy” is.  In particular, I think the Market Monetarists get very annoyed by this because the idea of “monetary policy”, to most people, is largely about changing interest rates.  But to the Market Monetarists “monetary policy” is much more than that. Now, I don’t agree with the Market Monetarists on a whole lot.  They are believers in efficient market hypothesis, rational expectations and they often say things like “keep banks out of macro” or “keep finance out of macro”.  In other words, they don’t think banks matter, they don’t think accounting is important, and they don’t like to view the monetary system as a set of balance sheets as I do.  So we arrive at our destinations along very different paths.  But one thing we definitely agree on is that central banks are really, really powerful. And that’s really the gist of Market Monetarism – central banks can just about always “do more”.  They can buy more assets, they can change expectations, they can act in a very fiscal sense if some laws were changed (for instance, I’ve theorized about how an unconstrained Central Bank could buy worthless bags of dirt from people for $100 a pop which would be the same as fiscal policy for all practical purposes).   So central banks and monetary policy are an extremely powerful lever.  Not an Archimedean lever in my opinion, but a very powerful lever. I’m not a big fan of the way Market Monetarists come to their conclusions, but their main conclusion is one that I think is fairly undeniable – central banks are really, really powerful.   Now, whether using the central bank’s powers is the optimal way to get the economy starting and stopping at any point in the businesses cycle, well, that’s a whole different debate…. FREE AppDownload
Former archbishop of Canterbury Dr Rowan Williams has spoken of his fears for the global climate, saying the winter flooding was a portent of what is to come. Writing in the Sunday Telegraph, he blamed the lifestyle of western countries, which he said was "pushing the environment towards crisis". He said the floods in Britain and similar weather-related catastrophes around the world are the clearest indications yet that predictions of "accelerated warming of the Earth" caused by the uncontrolled burning of fossil fuels… are coming true". Williams's warning came on the eve of a ground-breaking report into the impact of climate change, and a declaration from the energy secretary, Ed Davey, that Britain must spearhead the worldwide battle against global warming. Climate change is "hugely threatening" to life both in the UK and globally, Davey told the Observer, saying that not to lead the fight against it would be "deeply irresponsible". The UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) will this week to release a major report that is expected to warn of catastrophic consequences to food supplies, livelihoods, health and security across the world if climate change is allowed to continue unchecked. Leaked versions of the report, published in Japan on Monday, warn that rising global temperatures, droughts and heatwaves will threaten food supplies and human health, while hundreds of millions of people will be affected by coastal flooding. Climate change will cause economic losses, exacerbate poverty and increase migration and risks from violent conflict as well as causing damage to wildlife and habitats, the study by experts from around the world is expected to say. In Europe, heatwaves, droughts and heavy rainstorms will increase and there will be a greater risk of coastal and river flooding, it is expected to say, while heat-related deaths will also increase. The report, which collates work by thousands of scientists from across the world, is likely to state that global warming has already left its mark on all continents and oceans, and is expected to warn that even a small rise in temperatures could lead to irreversible changes. Williams, who stepped down as leader of the Anglican Church just over a year ago, said Monday's report put "our local problems into a deeply disturbing global context". Writing in his capacity as chairman of Christian Aid, he said: "We have heard for years the predictions that the uncontrolled burning of fossil fuels will lead to an accelerated warming of the Earth. "What is now happening indicates that these predictions are coming true; our actions have had consequences that are deeply threatening for many of the poorest communities in the world. "Rich, industrialised countries, including our own, have unquestionably contributed most to atmospheric pollution. Both our present lifestyle and the industrial history of how we created such possibilities for ourselves have to bear the responsibility for pushing the environment in which we live towards crisis." Campaigners on Saturday warned that the world faced a "bleak future" without action to tackle climate change and leading environmentalists called on politicians to break the world's dependency on fossil fuels. F This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Try to relax today. You're going to need the rest. This week is going to be big for the economy for two reasons. The first reason is the first week of the month is always big in terms of the calendar for economic data. On April 1 we'll get PMI manufacturing numbers from all over the world, giving us the latest on what's happening in China, Europe, and the U.S., not to mention several other key emerging markets like Russia, Turkey, and Brazil. Throughout the week there's other top-shelf data that will tell us about the state of the labor market, including car sales (a good proxy for work), initial jobless claims, and the ADP jobs report. And then Friday is the big kahuna: the jobs report, when we get the latest nonfarm payrolls data for March.  Current jobs report consensus is for nonfarm payrolls to add about 200,000 for the month, which would be an acceleration from recent months. And there's where we get into the second big reason you should pay attention this week: We're about to start finding out how much the winter weather really contributed to the slowdown of data in recent months. If the data keeps coming in poor it will raise troubling questions about what the heck is going on economically. Or, we might see a spring pickup and a return of the growth story. According to Morgan Stanley's proprietary AlphaWise Real Indicator of Activity (ARIA), the spring rebound is indeed in effect. Hopefully that shows up in this week's big data. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
