REUTERS/Andy ClarkSigns on window advertise a bitcoin ATM machine that has been installed in a Waves Coffee House in Vancouver, British Columbia October 28, 2013.There's a lingering misconception out there that deflation will be a problem for Bitcoin, and that will prevent it from widespread use. The argument (which, full disclosure I used to believe) basically goes like this: Because there's a fixed amount of the coins, people will horde them on anticipation of rising prices, and this hording will prevent the actual spending of currency, and therefore Bitcoins can only be speculative tools. This argument stems from the correct argument that economists make about national fiat currencies, which is that when you're in a period of deflation (characterized by falling prices and a rising currency) economic activity slows down, because you'll have more buying power tomorrow than you did today, and so what's the rush to spend? But the argument does not work for Bitcoin. Bitcoin is fundamentally a way to make transactions in a fiat currency. If you want to sell me something for $850, I could pay you in cash, credit card, via PayPal, bank wire, or possibly Bitcoin. How many Bitcoins this transaction requires (currently it would be right around one) is a function of fluctuating Bitcoin prices, but essentially we're carrying out a dollar-priced transaction and using the Bitcoin as the payment system. If the price of a Bitcoin were to surge 10-fold from here, it really wouldn't matter for the purposes of our transaction, because then I'd just pay you 0.1 Bitcoins. It's still just a $850. Now some are still concerned that there will be Bitcoin hoarding since the supply will be fixed, but this isn't really an issue. Suppose I own a lot of Bitcoins because I believe the price will continue to rise, should I be reluctant to make a Bitcoin-based purchase and part with some of my coins? Nah. If there's a purchase that makes sense for me to do in Bitcoin (such as buy chips in an online casino) I'll do that, and then just replenish my pile with the amount that I spent. No big deal. Ultimately, the price will clear somewhere. It's probably a safe bet that the majority of Bitcoin activity is currently speculative (people trying to make money) and yet there's no shortage for people who want to make an actual transaction. The market makes that not an issue. Ultimately it really doesn't matter how many coins there are. The relevant issue is not the amount of coins, but rather the total outstanding value of all the coins when priced in another currency. With a current market cap of over $10 billion, the Bitcoin ecosystem can absorb and pass through many more transactions than say Peercoin, which has a total outstanding value of coins of $118 million. This is the relevant number, not the amount of coins. And this number will be determined by total interest, the demand for coins (as a payment system) and by the number of people who want to hold them for speculative purposes. There's an irony. Bitcoin doesn't have a deflation problem, because it's a conduit for making normal currency transactions. That being said, may Bitcoin diehards do dream about it supplanting fiat currencies, and leaving central banks in its wake. If that were to happen and it became the currency (it won't) then it would have a deflation problem. But that doesn't need to happen for Bitcoin to be a success. FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt; has agreed to pay $614 million to the U.S. government to settle claims it defrauded federal agencies by underwriting sub-standard mortgage loans, the U.S. Justice Department said on Tuesday. JPMorgan, the largest U.S. bank by assets, is admitting in the settlement that for more than a decade it approved thousands of loans that were not eligible for insurance by the Federal Housing Administration or the Department of Veterans Affairs, the department said in a statement. As a consequence, "both the FHA and the VA incurred substantial losses when unqualified loans failed and caused the FHA and VA to cover the associated losses," the Justice Department said. The settlement was filed in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York and was approved by Judge J. Paul Oetken, according to a statement from the U.S. Attorney's Office in Manhattan. The bank said in a statement that the "settlement represents another significant step in the firm's efforts to put historical mortgage-related issues behind it." The company said it has already recorded reserves for the settlement and does not expect the deal to have any significant additional financial impact. Last year, the company agreed to about $20 billion in settlements in its drive to clear up legal claims. The deals covered claims over other mortgage issues, as well as derivatives and power trading. On Monday, the company agreed to pay $1.45 million to settle four-year-old allegations brought by theU.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission that the bank had maintained a sexually hostile environment for women in a mortgage loan center on Ohio. (Additional reporting by Nate Raymond; Editing by Bernard Orr) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsLucha libre máscaras (mexican wrestling masks)If you wanted to pinpoint the moment when things got particularly bad for Latin America, August 1982 wouldn’t be a bad choice. The emergency warning that month that Mexico was on the verge of default was the first in a decade-long series of regional debt crises. It’s a rare Latin American nation that wasn’t forced to grapple with out-of-control inflation, a stagnant economy, plummeting wages or high unemployment during the so-called “Lost Decade.” And even though 30 years have passed since the unofficial start of the bad times, the misfortunes of the era still loom large in our collective memory. Here’s the good news: If you wanted to pinpoint the moment when investors finally turned the page toward optimism again, January 2014 wouldn’t be a bad choice, either. There’s no question that the area earned its reputation as the international economy’s problem child, but, according to a February 3 report from the Credit Suisse Research Institute entitled “Latin America: The Long Road,” the region has been advancing over the past two decades and is poised to extend its gains. Poverty has declined, inflation has slowed and political stability has improved. Not only is Latin America no longer a trigger of global disorder, it has proved resilient to financial crises generated elsewhere, including the Great Recession. That’s certainly a break from the region’s volatile past, when disturbances in the world economy routinely had a very negative impact on its domestic economies. “The last 20 years have been a crucial period as they represent the most radical change in the political, macro and social structures of Latin America in the last two centuries,” says the report. Most Latin American countries have either transformed or are in the midst of transforming their economies away from a dependence on commodities, which historically left them vulnerable to the volatile fluctuations of global prices for oil, food, metals and other raw materials. Since the early 1990s, many have been modernizing their economies by strengthening their service and manufacturing sectors, approving key structural reforms and boosting long-term investment. Latin America now exports a higher proportion of its goods to Asian economies, resulting in a more diversified roster of trading partners, inflation has come under control, and political regimes in many countries have become more democratic. The upshot? Now that an extended global commodity boom is waning, the region isn’t at risk like it was the last time that happened, in the 1980s. Even though the collective current account balance recently hit deficit territory, several other indicators suggest that Latin America is well positioned to absorb external shocks. The region boasts an external debt-to-exports ratio of around 100 percent, which is half its level in 1980 and similar to other emerging markets. The external debt-to-GDP ratio of 24.5 percent is only 4 percent above its 30-year low, total reserves excluding gold were at a near-record high of 60 percent of external debt at the end of 2012, and the capital-to-assets ratio of the region’s banks was 10.3 percent in 2012, compared with an OECD average of 7.4 percent. That spells opportunity for investors, in our view, especially those in the consumer goods, financial services and energy sectors. Growth in the region has fueled a burgeoning middle class, which grew by 50 percent between 2003 and 2009, from 103 to 152 million people. Credit Suisse expects that upward social mobility to persist, giving consumers more purchasing power and prompting them to buy more sophisticated—and therefore more valuable—goods and services. Greater Internet coverage is fueling more opportunities for e-commerce, and an expanding economy amid slow inflation should bring throngs of new customers to the financial services industry. To top it off, recent legislation to end Mexico’s state oil monopoly, along with plans by Brazilian energy company Petrobras to double production by 2020, should fuel growth in the energy sector. Still, the regional economy isn’t without its weaknesses. Per capita GDP remains inferior to that of the developed world, the level of technological innovation is low, and doing business in many countries can still be a red tape-filled bureaucratic jungle. And consider Latin America’s total investment in infrastructure—just 2.1 percent of GDP between 2003 and 2012, roughly half of the minimum necessary to sustain economic growth of 4.5 percent, according to the United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America. (Compare that to China, which invested around 13 percent of its GDP, or even India, which came in at 5 percent.) Two of the region’s largest countries, Mexico and Brazil, have recently announced plans to woo private investors to build roads, ports, bridges and airports, but whether they will succeed remains to be seen. Latin America is not a monolith, of course, and there are vast disparities among its economies. Chile, Peru and Panama, for example, score in the top ranges of Credit Suisse’s adaptation of the so-called misery index, which factors in economic growth, the inflation rate and the unemployment rate. Argentina and Venezuela are in the bottom 30 percent. And even as Brazil’s middle class grew to 50 percent of the population from 39 percent between 2002 and 2009, Mexico, the region’s second largest economy, only saw an increase of 35 to 39 percent between 2002 and 2011. For a long time, it seemed that economic news out of Latin America was always bad—the only question was how bad it was going to be. For the time being, those days are over, and the region is more likely to be garnering praise rather than prompting lectures from the rest of the world. “By any reference to its own history, Latin America’s performance during and after the Great Crisis has been remarkable,” says former Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo in an introduction to the report. “However, it would be a terrible mistake for Latin American governments and societies to be complacent about the challenges in front of them.” FREE AppDownload
January was a rough month as turmoil in the emerging economies appeared to cause world markets to come down. Stocks, bonds, currencies... it seemed like everything but U.S. Treasuries tumbled. But that's not exactly true. Italy of all places saw its stock market tick higher. And it might surprise everyone to hear that Indonesia, home to one of the so-called "Fragile Five" currencies, jumped over 3% for the month. In local currency terms, there were even more markets that closed the month at closer to breakeven. Here's a round-up of global equity market returns around the world. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
2013 was an excellent year for U.S. stocks, but 2014 has already gotten off to a volatile start. Some warn of a correction while others say the stock market could still rise this year. More recently there are concerns about contagion from emerging markets. Richard Madigan, CIO at J.P. Morgan Private Bank, thinks there are some big differences between what we're seeing now and what we saw in the mid-to-late 1990s.  "We came into this year expecting markets to be more volatile based on the fact that they, like the global recovery, are transitioning to a more normal environment," he told Business Insider. "We’re already seeing indications of this as volatility has already picked up across asset classes. Consensus opinion is currently pointing to emerging markets as the cause." Madigan says JPMorgan has "significantly reduced investments in foreign currencies, commodities, EM debt and EM equity markets" over the last year. And in some instances they "cut 10% to 15% of portfolio exposure." While he is watching the emerging markets space for attractive entry points, he says, "we don’t believe now is the time to be adding back to investment positions." With that as a frame of reference, we looked at the latest J.P. Morgan Private Bank Market Outlook report (published January 15) aimed at its wealthiest clients. In it Madigan writes that his outlook for the year is "built around the continuation of a slow-but-steady global recovery." He also thinks valuations are not overextended. J.P. Morgan Private Bank's typical client has $5 million in investible assets, though their sweet spot, they say, is in the $25 million range. Stocks Global stocks returned about 25% in 2013, which means global equity markets increased by about $7 trillion in 2013. In 2014, JPMorgan expects the S&amp;P 500 to return 8-14% with about 6-8% EPS growth. European stocks are expected to return 10-12% and Asian emerging markets ex-China are expected to return 7-10%. "Importantly, the global macro backdrop is improving, particularly in developed markets where the policy picture remains supportive. Strong corporate balance sheets and a stronger economic environment have laid the groundwork for higher corporate cash deployment." We're not in a stock market bubble yet. Bonds U.S. high-grade bonds could see 1-1.5% total return in 2014. Muni bonds could see -2.75 to -2.25% return, and U.S high yield is expected to return 5-6%. "We think we are about halfway through the transition to higher U.S. interest rates, and advocate a 2.0- to 2.5-year duration target across fixed income portfolios. From an allocation perspective, we favor modest exposure to credit as well as benchmark-agnostic total return strategies that can tactically navigate a volatile market." Emerging markets It's important to not lump all emerging markets together. "We continue to favor countries that are commodity importers with stable current accounts and positive earnings growth, leaving us focused on North Asia." Risks There are five risks to markets this year. In terms of central bank actions, the Bank of Japan is the one to watch because of the sheer scale of its monetary and fiscal experiments. "Any missteps or a reversal of market confidence is likely to cause market disruption. We are watching the yen for any sign of doubt—we would view a markedly stronger yen as a negative vote of confidence against Abenomics." Too much inflation, elections in key emerging markets and midterm elections in the United States, limited corporate investment, and stalled European growth are other risks to watch for. Portfolio construction Bottom line: Stocks will outperform bonds, the time is right to look at international stock markets again, and when it comes to emerging markets investors need to differentiate among them. 2014 will be a year of higher volatility but will be good for risk assets. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsDante gazes at purgatory in this 16th-century painting.FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. GMO's James Montier Says Investors Need Recognize That They're In "The Purgatory Of Low Returns" (Advisor Perspectives)  In an interview with Robert Huebscher of Advisor Perspectives, James Montier of Grantham Mayo van Otterloo’s (GMO’s) asset allocation team talked about what investors need to do at a time when cash is generating negative returns and when bonds are not "enticing."  "The answer is, you have to recognize that this is the purgatory of low returns. This is the environment within which we operate. As much as wish it could be different, the reality is it isn’t, so you have to build a portfolio up that tries to make sense. That means owning some equities where you think you’re getting at least some degree of reasonable compensation for owning them, and then basically trying to create a perfect dry-powder asset."The perfect dry-powder asset would have three characteristics: it would give you liquidity, protect you against inflation and it might generate a little bit of return."Right now, of course, there is nothing that generates all three of those characteristics. So you have to try and build one in a in a synthetic fashion, which means holding some cash for its liquidity benefits. It means owning something like TIPS, which are priced considerably more attractively than cash, to generate inflation protection. Then, you must think about the areas to add a little bit of value to generate an above-cash return: selected forms of credit or possibly equity-spread trades, but nothing too risky." Advisory Firms That Want To Sell Should Switch To The Fee-Based Model (The Wall Street Journal)  Fee-only advisory firms have a client turnover of between 1-3% each year, writes Mark Hurley CEO of Fiduciary Network in a new WSJ column. This means these practices will have stable client relationships and fees. In comparison, those that charge commission are "dinosaurs." And when it comes to selling your business, Hurley writes that "what these advisers don't seem to understand is that commission-based revenue streams have absolutely zero value when selling your business." These also expose buyers to regulatory risks.  "So for commission-based advisers out there, this should be a wake-up call. If you're planning on selling your business in the next five years, it's time to get your act together. Forgo that short-term sugar high from the commissions and start working on really developing stable relationships with your clients. If you want to get the most value for your business, it's time to change your model." Most Advisors Don't Have A Strategy In Place To Lure Younger Clients (Investment News)  The financial advisory industry faces a generational shift in terms of clients and advisors. But six in 10 advisory firms don't have any strategy on attracting younger clients, according to a recent report from TD Ameritrade Institutional. "Businesses often feel that the most important thing is taking care of things today and focusing on existing leads," Philip Palaveev, chief executive of the Ensemble Practice told Carl O'Donnell at Investment News. "It's very rare that a 60 year old will refer a 35 year old. … This is a natural property of social networks. If you look around, most of the people you are friends with are probably within five years of your age." RBC Capital Is The Most Influential Brokerage In Social Media (WealthManagement.com)  Megan Leonhardt at WealthManagement.com has ranked the top five most influential brokerages in social media based on their "Twitter influence and outreach, LinkedIn followers and Facebook presence." Here are the top five with their Kred scores. Kred is a social media monitoring company. RBC Wealth Management came out on top. Ameriprise, Robert W. Baird &amp; Co, Bank of America/Merrill Lynch, and Wells Fargo Advisors rounded off the top five, in that order. BILL GROSS: Investors Are Saying We Want Safety In Principal (Bloomberg TV) PIMCO's Bill Gross sat down with Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle and Erik Schatzker to discuss where investors are putting their money and where they're pulling it out of. "Well they’re saying we want safety in principal," Gross said. "This is a Will Rodgers idea, Stephanie, back in the ‘30s. Not so much concerned about the return on my money as the return of my money. What product does that represent in terms of that possibility? Something with a relatively short duration and something with relatively short credit risk or credit spreads. Unconstrained bond funds are one example at PIMCO that are garnering a lot of attention. I’ve been managing that recently and it’s doing really well. "The total return fund is doing really well. It’s up 1.5 to 2 percent for the month with some good stability and prospects for inflows. So bonds are back. They’re not all the way back, and I doubt they’ll get all the way back to the point of 16, 18 months ago in which interest rates in the 10-year was at 1.65. But bonds have a – have a stable position in almost all portfolios if only for diversification. So unconstrained bond funds, lower duration bond funds, diversified income, equities at some point." Gross also added that the era of getting rich quick was over and that investors should pare down their expectations on returns.  FREE AppDownload
Last week, we brought you a series of maps showing which colleges across the country have the most on-campus drug and alcohol arrests. Surprisingly, or not, all of the Ivy League schools were absent from this list. However, Rehabs.com — who put this information together — compiled a separate ranking for the elite eight universities. "We wanted to find interesting data that's been under-explored," Drugs on Campus project head Jon Millward told Business Insider. Many of the previously existing reports on campus drug use were "more surface," Millward said. The information comes from the Department of Education's Office of Postsecondary Education, which only tracks campus crime reports, not those from the surrounding area. Dartmouth College leads the Ivy League in both on-campus drug arrests and alcohol arrests — the latter by a significant margin. The Rehabs.com report attributes this to Dartmouth's dominant Greek culture: What's obvious is that there weren't very many of them. Dartmouth College sits comfortably in first position, with more than five times more alcohol arrests than Yale University. This result matches a known problem Dartmouth has with drinking on its campus, attributed mostly to the fact that fraternities dominate the social scene there. About two-thirds of undergraduates at Dartmouth join a fraternity or sorority, which is nearly double the rate of any other Ivy League school. And Greeks are known to be more likely to abuse alcohol. Via rehabs.com FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipThe price of Dogecoin, the world's third most traded cyrptocurrency, is down 9% this afternoon. And that's a great thing.  Because the update from Dogecoin's creators causing the temporary price drop will ultimately ensure its longevity going forward. In a message on Github this weekend, Sydney-based co-creator Jackson Palmer announced the amount of Dogecoin would not be fixed, meaning it's possible for an infinite amount of Dogecoin to be created. (This was first spotted by Ars Technica's Cyrus Favriar). Every new "block" of Dogecoin that gets mined will yield 10,000 units of the currency.   "This will help maintain mining and stabilize the number of coins in circulation (considering lost wallets and various other ways coins may be destroyed) at 100 billion," Palmer wrote.  This is close to how a normal fiat currency like the U.S. dollar works. Like the greenback, Dogecoin will now better be able to respond to increasing demand, as well as potential damages like those outlined by Palmer. It also gives incentives for miners to keep operating, thus helping keep the network more secure — as in Bitcoin, "mining" Dogecoin also serves to confirm the transactions taking place on the digital currency's master exchange ledger. These all happen to be problems Bitcoin currently faces. Bitcoin has a early adoption and miner-arms-race regime. Those who got in earliest, or can mine the most, enjoy lopsided control over the Bitcoin market. We've discussed this elsewhere. The result is that they are crossing their fingers that Bitcoin adoption will become widespread, thus helping drive up value. It's hard to tell what's driving what, but the price has settled at $800 for a couple months now. That's a lot to pay for a single Bitcoin for someone just entering the market.  Ripple's David Schwartz wrote about this online recently:  "A fixed supply that can't respond to demand is a bad thing. Money, like every commodity, works best when the supply can adjust efficiently to the demand. (The people who don't like this are primarily people who want to make other people act against their own interests just so that they personally can make a large profit by not doing anything but holding money.)" That description would apply to Bitcoin miners that are in ovedrive to acquire enough Bitcoin as possible. They are not generating any more demand — they are merely banking that demand will come in time, and thus increase the value of their holdings.  Others have tried to do this with Dogecoin. "I'm strictly in it for the money," wrote GitHub user MadCold. "I bought in to massive amounts of DogeCoin when the price was cheap, expecting it to rise. So far it looks like the value of the currency is tanking. Nearly 10c per 1K over the past few hours. I still demand [Palmer] answer for what he's doing to ruin the DogeCoin currency."  Secondly, Bitcoin is already approaching the point where mega-miners will have to begin charging fees to continue mining. As we discussed above, mining helps keep the network secure, so the cost of security is going to increase. By creating a steady rate of inflation, Dogecoin can keep security cheap.  As GitHub user Chkwok writes, the new decision will allow Dogecoin to reach a much wider audience: "The ones making the most noise in the pro-deflation camp aren't the ones we want to serve, if we're to become the Internet's currency, we'll have to reach the mainstream users which don't care about hoarding massive amounts of Ð for profit, the max 5% loss of value per year caused by inflation in the worst case or broken promises on a Bitcointalk thread. They care about having a currency where micropayments are properly implemented (without the insane fees and minimums PayPal &amp; friends want) and tipping is effortless." FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVTom LeeJPMorgan chief U.S. equity strategist Tom Lee believes the weak start stocks have had this year presents a buying opportunity. In particular, Lee says companies with high sales exposure to emerging markets offer value after getting hit relatively hard in the sell-off that has taken its cue in part from EM. "Stocks with low EM exposure trade at 18.9x [earnings]," writes Lee in a note to clients. "This is 3.3 turns above those with high EM exposure. This 3.3x premium is well above the 10-year average of 1.6x and suggests that a contrarian stance would argue that high EM exposure may be the better risk/reward today." Lee suggests the following stocks for those who want to play this theme. They're all in cyclical sectors, their forward P/E ratio is less than 16x, they're all expected to deliver positive 2014 revenue growth, they're all overweight-rated buy JPM analysts, and they're all trading below JPM analysts' price targets: However, he also provides a word of caution, advising clients to pay attention to developments in the high-yield debt market. "In particular, if HY markets widen and reach 50 basis points, we would be more mindful of the risk for further downside. The reason is that typically a widening in HY presages either worsening liquidity and/or greater perceived risk—both undermine the case for stocks. We will continue to monitor this metric closely in coming weeks." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike BlakeSnowboarders sail off jumps during snowboard slopestyle training at the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics in Rosa Khutor, February 3, 2014.The global market sell-off has finally stopped. For now, at least. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Earlier today, the Congressional Budget Office released a report saying the Affordable Care Act will reduce employment by 2.5 million full time-equivalent workers as of 2024, almost entirely through effects on the labor supply side: That is, the law won't much change firms' interest in hiring, but it will make people want to work less. Here's a key implication of that finding that most people are glossing over: Obamacare will drive wages up.  The price of labor, like any good or service, is determined by supply and demand. If producers of labor (workers) become less inclined to sell it, but consumers of labor (firms) are unchanged in their interest in buying, then the price of labor has to rise in order to bring the quantity supplied and the quantity demanded into line. If labor supply falls and labor demand remains the same, how will the labor market clear? Higher wages. (3/4) The usual warning about Obamacare from the right has been that it will "kill jobs" by making firms less inclined to hire. While this warning tends to come from (or on behalf of) business owners, the phenomenon it describes would mostly have negative effects on workers, by increasing unemployment and reducing their ability to command wage increases. If (as CBO predicts) the decline in work is driven almost entirely by a decline in labor supply, the upshot will be very different. Employers will be left holding the bag economically. Workers will choose to work fewer hours; since firms won't be any less interested in hiring, they'll have to pay more per hour to get those workers in the door. The positive wage effect should be concentrated among low-skill workers, who will face the greatest discouragement to work from Obamacare, and therefore will be able to command the greatest wage increases in order to keep working. More broadly, Obamacare alters the employer-employee relationship in a way that empowers employees. When an employee is dependent on his job not just for a wage but for health insurance, he is less able to threaten to leave if he doesn't get a raise. Severing the work-insurance link strengthens the employee's hand in bargaining — which is bad for employers and good for workers. Over the last few decades, owners of capital have captured a rising share of national income, as wage growth has lagged. By strengthening workers' hands in negotiation, Obamacare should increase the labor share of GDP and reduce income inequality. The CBO finding that the law will reduce labor supply is just one example of that. FREE AppDownload
David Weinreb, CEO of The Howard Hughes Corporation, was pulled on stage at Jay-Z and Beyonce's Super Bowl after-party to sing.   Weinreb, 48, spontaneously performed Frank Sinatra's "New York, New York" and it was incredible. Even Jay-Z started jumping up and down when he was hitting his notes.   Check it out:   A year ago, the Howard Hughes Corporation was called one of the "best kept secrets on Wall Street," by hedge fund manager Bill Ackman. Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, is the chairman of Howard Hughes' board and his hedge fund owns a big stake.   In the last year, the company's stock has skyrocketed more than 67 percent.   Howard Hughes has some cool plans for the South Street Seaport in Lower Manhattan that will transform it into a venue for fashion shows and rooftop concerts, etc.  (See the rendering below).  Weinreb is scheduled to speak at the Harbor Investment Conference, a hedge fund industry conference hosted by Bill Ackman and Mark Axelowitz that benefits the Boys &amp; Girls Harbor.    Howard Hughes Corporation South Street Seaport plans FREE AppDownload
Malcolm Reed via YouTubeChina's economy is slowing and many are worried about a Lehman-like credit crisis. Many are attributing the rout in global markets, at least in part, to these concerns. When Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle and Erik Schatzker asked PIMCO's Bill Gross if there's anything out there in the emerging markets space, Gross said emerging markets are getting cheaper but have many problems. He then went on to compare China to some pretty nasty meat. From Bloomberg TV:  "The last wild card, Erik, in terms of emerging market space obviously is China. Is it 6 percent? Is it 7 percent? Is it 5 percent? I call China the mystery meat of emerging market countries. Nobody knows what’s there and there’s a little bit of baloney, so we’re just going to have to wonder going forward through this year as to the potential problems in China and other emerging markets." Bon appetit. Watch the entire interview here:  FREE AppDownload
January saw a loss of 3.5%, the biggest one-month loss in the S&amp;P 500 Index since May 2012. The main driver of the market weakness seems to be sharp currency declines and accompanying stock market losses in several emerging markets, such as South Africa and Turkey (for reasons we previewed in the September 16, 2013 Weekly Market Commentary: Emerging Markets and the Fed—What’s Attractive and What to Avoid). It is not unusual to see the market dip 3% in a month, especially after such a strong run-up throughout 2013. We have seen 18 months of losses for the S&amp;P 500 since the bull market began 59 months ago in March 2009 — that is about one-third of the months. The average decline during those months was 3.1%. So January’s 3% stock market dip is not particularly unusual or alarming. What was unusual about January’s stock market trading was the volume. Importantly, the stock market and trading volume have not been on friendly terms in recent years. In fact, over the past five years’ low-volume days (when stock trading volume is below its 50-day moving average) stocks have generally gone up, as you can see in Figure 1. Conversely, when volume is above average, stocks have generally been flat to down. LPL Financial In January, daily trading volume rose on the U.S. stock exchanges, and when combined with trading off the exchanges (referred to as the over-the- counter market), total trading volume surged to levels not seen since May 2010 [Figure 2]. With the stock market tending to decline when volume is above average, it is no wonder that the doubling of trading volume in January from the average of prior months coincided with losses for stocks. LPL Financial When it comes to volume, be careful what you wish for. A common criticism of the bull market in recent years is that buyers do not have a lot of conviction because volume has not been strong. The implication has been if volume does not pick up, the market may decline. However, the past few years show the opposite: that markets climb on relatively quiet trading for long stretches of time and then briefly pull back as volume jumps. What caused such a surge in trading in January? It is hard to say exactly—weather-impacted economic data points, emerging market turmoil, or the Federal Reserve (Fed) tapering its bond purchases. But given recent history, the good news is that the spikes in trading volume have not been sustained for long, and, as the volume turns back down, markets have historically recouped losses. Market participants are taking a cautious view on some of the softer readings on the economy. While getting a good read on economic growth is difficult through the weather-related distortions of December and January, the pace of growth had been improving in the second half of 2013 and is likely to have sustained that pace in the last couple of months. We expect the data to firm back up as the weather-related distortions fade. The weakness in emerging markets should not be seen as a signal of a broad global economic deterioration that could spread and tip the world back into a global recession. In fact, just the opposite—many emerging markets had become dependent upon global economic weakness. The soft global economy of the past five years prompted the Federal Reserve (Fed) and other central banks to pump money into the global financial system, encouraging capital to flow into the emerging markets and allowing them to run unsustainable current account and budget deficits. Now, as global growth is improving, we are seeing the Fed begin to slow its bond purchases, and that change is prompting some emerging markets to have to quickly adjust by devaluing their currencies and sharply slowing spending. So, much of the turmoil in the emerging markets is actually the result of the improving economic growth around the world and not a sign that it is weakening. Therefore, we do not see the January dip as the start of a bear market and global recession. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
1. Whatever happened to Mrs Freedom, Yulia Tymoshenko? For months leading up to the November deadline for Ukraine to sign the partnership agreement offered by the European Union (EU), the Europeans seemed to be saying that release of former Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko from her 7-year jail sentence was the precondition for the deal. The Germans seemed to be demanding her release as late as November 18. That very day the US Senate’s Foreign Relations Committee agreed on the text of Senate Resolution 165 which “(1) calls on the Government of Ukraine to release former Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko from imprisonment based on politicized and selective charges and in light of the April 2013 European Court of Human Rights verdict; (2)calls on the European Union members to include the release of Ms. Tymoshenko from imprisonment based on politicized and selective charges as a criterion for signing an association agreement with Ukraine at the upcoming Eastern Partnership Summit in Lithuania; (3)expresses its belief and hope that Ukraine’s future rests with stronger ties to Europe, the United States, and others in the community of democracies.” In seventy-two more hours President Viktor Yanukovich and his parliamentary majority decided to reject the EU deal in favour of a Russian one; that was on November 21. That day too, the Verkhovna Rada voted down a bill allowing Tymoshenko’s release for medical treatment in Germany. A week later, Ukrainian demonstrators in Kiev were shouting for her release, combining that with shouts in favour of the EU agreement. But the State Department was beginning to go cold on Tymoshenko’s fate. On December 2, the State Department spokesman put Tymoshenko in the past tense. “We have consistently spoken about this in the past and expressed our concern about her detention…So we’ve consistently expressed concern, encouraged them to take steps forward. Obviously, there hasn’t been progress on that on the ground.” Even in the past tense, January 15 was the last time a US Government official mentioned Tymoshenko. As the Euromaidan demonstrations escalated against government targets in the capital and across the country, not only has the US been mum on Tymoshenko; it has been actively backing someone else to be the next president of Ukraine. Why? The last independent Ukrainian poll of voter intentions was undertaken between December 23 and 27. With a sample of 2,079 and coverage of 24 regions of the country, the survey found support for the EU partnership was running at 43%; support for the Russian customs union, 30%; with 20% in favour of no change in either direction. The poll also found that 47% were positive towards the Moscow agreement; 27% negative. As for the Euromaidan protests, 50% said they were against; 45% in favour. As for their presidential vote if an election were called immediately, 25% picked Yanukovich; 8% Tymoshenko. Among the other contenders, Vitali Klitschko did better at 14%, while Arseny Yatseniuk did worse at 5%. No independent Ukraine poll has been published since then. Much private polling has been done, though, especially by those financing the opposition. Douglas Schoen, a pollster currently employed by the anti-Russian Ukrainian oligarch Victor Pinchuk, is an expert at creating political front-runners out of no voter support at all. According to US investigations, Schoen has done this Venezuela and in the Czech Republic. In the Ukraine, there has been a problem – and that’s Tymoshenko. Between the time she was expected to be released and the time the Obama Administration decided to drop her, it became clear that if the Euromaidan campaign for Europe and against Russia were to succeed, it had to oust Yanukovich. Managed more or less constitutionally, that meant pressuring him into calling a new election. The trouble with this, according to the private polls, was that the most likely candidate to win instead would be Tymoshenko. So why wouldn’t Mrs Freedom be just the ticket for Washington? Answer: she was ready to do a deal with Moscow and was thus acceptable to the Kremlin. President Vladimir Putin said as much last week: “For us it isn’t important [who from the opposition wins]— we carried on a very constructive dialogue with the government of Ukraine when this government was headed by Madam Tymoshenko.” Inflating Klitschko has therefore been the principal goal of the US political technologists. Taking the air, er gas, out of him is the obvious Russian counter. 2. Where can be done for Ukraine’s gas pains? Everyone in the Ukraine is stealing Russian gas. On this point there is unanimity from Moscow to Brussels, from Dniepropetrovsk to Kiev and Lviv. Yanukovich doesn’t pay Naftogaz, the state gas distributor, and when Klitscho and Yatseniuk turn on their cookers, what burns for them is free of charge. The Roshen Group, which generates Petro Poroshenko’s fortune, owes Naftogaz a sum of money Naftogaz says is too confidential to release, and Roshen refuses to admit at all. After the Ukrainian courts have ruled a half-dozen times, Pinchuk’s Interpipe still will not pay a debt of almost $70 million. Whether Tymoshenko is in hospital or prison, the gas keeping her and her guards warm is not being paid for. And if the EU and the White House could find an alternative supplier of gas to Gazprom, that too would be stolen. Starting with gas and including most other commodities, Ukraine has become a pyramid of debt for stolen goods. Lend or pay any amount of cash into the system, and it will disappear immediately, converted into real goods consumed with the intention not to pay for them, leaving nothing but growing debts behind. When Yanukovich, Putin and their subordinates agreed in December on a Russian programme of rescue measures, $15 billion was promised to refinance Ukraine’s treasury and foreign debts, partly to repay $2.7 billion in debt already owing for deliveries of Gazprom gas last year; and partly to enable Gazprom to continue delivering gas this year at a higher volume than 2013, and at a newly negotiated 36% discount in price. But it’s now clear the first instalment of $3 billion in Russian bailout financing has gone – Ukraine still isn’t repaying the old Gazprom debt, and Naftogaz cannot afford to pay for current deliveries. Where did the money go? Putin is asking publicly – there’s not a Russian, nor Ukrainian, who doubts the answer. According to Russian calculations, during the month of January Gazprom delivered 2.5 billion cubic metres of new gas for an invoice value of $658 million. At the start of the new month, however, Naftogaz was owed $3.4 billion by the country’s municipal and regional administrations. How much more is owed to Naftogaz by the Ukraine’s commercial enterprises hasn’t been counted. If the defaulters were paying up, Naftogaz would be able to repay Gazprom as promised, and start meeting its new delivery invoices. But the defaulters won’t, so Naftogaz can’t. In order for Naftogaz to continue supplying local consumers with gas at a tariff which has been fixed below its supply cost, the state budget must meet its promised subsidy for Naftogaz. But it too cannot pay. There is simply no free cash left in the Ukrainian government. If the guardian of the Euro-American rescue for Ukraine is to be the International Monetary Fund (IMF), this is how the IMF board of directors reported the Ukrainian situation on December 13, just before the Russian bailout began. “The fiscal stance loosened in 2012–13, contributing to the buildup of vulnerabilities. Large pension and wage increases, generous energy subsidies, and soccer cup spending led to a widening of the combined deficit of the general government and the state-owned company Naftogaz to 5½ percent of GDP in 2012. In 2013, the combined government-Naftogaz deficit is projected to expand to 7¾ percent of GDP.” The American and European directors on the IMF board didn’t sound then that they were in favour of keeping Ukrainians warm this winter, at least not on the terms Gazprom has been agreeing to. “An inefficient and opaque energy sector continues to weigh heavily on public finances and the economy. Overall energy subsidies in Ukraine reached about 7½ percent of GDP in 2012. The very low tariffs for residential gas and district heating cover only a fraction of economic costs and encourage one of the highest energy consumption levels in Europe. As a result, Naftogaz’s losses in 2013:H1 more than doubled and the company is late on payments for imported gas.” “Opaque” in IMF-speak means theft in Russian; in English too. As Secretary of State John Kerry was poking his finger on the weekend at the rank of Ukrainian candidates the secret-service pollsters are recommending, the EU’s foreign minister Lady Catherine Ashton claimed she’s putting together a new financial offer to top the Russian one. In November Ashton was careful to insist that this should take the form of “a new standby arrangement with the IMF”. This week Ashton’s scheme offered short-term money with long-term conditions. According to Ashton, the new numbers “won’t be small”. She also claimed that although the non-small down-payment won’t require IMF conditions, there will be no non-small money to follow unless IMF conditionality is exactly what the government in Kiev agrees to. That money, according to Ashton, is “contingent on the new Ukrainian government pursuing economic and political reforms.” Between Ashton’s taster and the IMF’s medicine, US officials have announced: “Nobody [American] is going to give them money if they’re not doing the economic reform as well as the political reform, because then it is money down the rat hole…The point is to say to them we will be with you if you walk this tough economic path and we’re not going to let you fall into default as you do it.” According to this Wall Street Journal version, “U.S. officials believe it could be easier for a transitional government to raise natural gas prices in the spring as temperatures rise.” Here’s the IMF again, revealing what Ukrainian reforms it has in mind: “High budget expenditure should be reduced by rationalizing public procurement, restraining the growth in public sector wages and employment, and limiting pension indexation to inflation. In addition, authorities should refrain from unaffordable tax cuts. Directors agreed that these measures would reduce the fiscal deficit to a sustainable level over the medium term while creating space for essential public investment.” “Directors underscored the need for a comprehensive energy sector reform. They stressed that upfront, meaningful, and broad-based tariff increases are essential for reducing large quasi-fiscal losses, attracting new investments, and improving governance. Energy tariff increases should be accompanied by measures to protect the most vulnerable households. Directors welcomed the authorities’ plans to continue with energy-saving reforms, increase domestic gas production, and diversify energy imports, but stressed that these measures cannot substitute for the indispensable tariff adjustments. So who wants to be president of the country with the IMF in charge of the alternative to the Russian agreement? Which of them wants to go first in explaining that freedom to be European will mean job losses, wage cuts, lower pensions, higher prices for everything, especially gas, and higher taxes. No hands are up, not Klitschko’s, not Yatseniuk’s. There’s no cure for the gas pains, at least not until the warm weather arrives. 3. Why is the Austrian Government guarding the Azarov family silver? At the Munich Security Conference on the weekend, Yatseniuk, whose standing in the prospective presidential polls isn’t matching Klitschko’s, announced his alternative to the Russian rescue programme – a Euro-American giveaway. “Ukraine desperately needs a Marshall plan and not martial law in order to stabilize the political and economic situation in the country”, he said, according to German radio. Klitschko has so far avoided making statements about what bailout terms he would agree to, if he were to become president. In Munich he stuck monosyllabically to a presidential replacement script. “Mr. Yanukovich, Ukrainians ask you if this is the right path. It is the path for rights for our people? Let me say as a Ukrainian citizen, this is not an acceptable path for us. For two months, the people of Ukraine have showed their will for political change…The people have said enough. Enough corruption, enough living without laws, enough of this system. The people, with this system, they don’t see the future.” In impromptu remarks that followed, Klitschko did say he favours the type of sanctions initially proposed in the US. According to Klitschko, these would include bans on issuing travel visas and freezes on credit card and bank account operations by Ukrainian government officials. Klitschko named noone. Why was Klitschko so reticent? If sanctions are to be exemplary, painful and a deterrent to violence, as their proponents apparently want, the most accessible target is ex-Prime Minister Mykola Azarov and his family, now living in Vienna. The family also includes only child, Oleksiy Azarov, a member of the Ukrainian parliament whose expensive tastes are well-known. Ukrainian protesters in Austria have targeted the Azarov house. But for the time being, the Ukrainian opposition leadership, and the governments supporting them, are sparing the Austrian Government the trouble of opening an investigation of the larceny, embezzlement, and money laundering allegations which have been made against Azarov senior. If the Austrians, like the rest of the EU, genuinely believe what they are accusing the Ukrainian government of, this refusal to act is a sign that sanctions talk is bluffing. Why shouldn’t President Yanukovich think so? When naivety meets cynicism there’s nothing to be said. This article originally appeared at Dances With Bears. John Helmer is the longest continuously serving foreign correspondent in Russia, and the only western journalist to direct his own bureau independent of single national or commercial ties. Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Take the conduct of monetary policy, which has been a focal point for market anxiety over the last several months, but no more so than after last week's extremely aggressive interest rate hikes by Turkey's central bank, which have raised more questions than answers. With continued pressure on EM currencies, the perception is that other developing economies which hitherto have yet to raise rates — yet whose currencies are under the cosh — will be forced to follow suit. A cursory glance at the monetary policy landscape in EMs suggests this is too hasty a conclusion. Romania's central bank, which has been intervening in the currency markets to prop up the leu, trimmed rates today by a further 25 basis points to a record low of 3.5%. Its Hungarian counterpart, which is under pressure to hike rates because of the weakness of the forint, is more likely to loosen policy further at this month's rate-setting meeting on February 18 than to start tightening it. While inflation is running at 7.5% in Turkey, it's a meagre 0.4% in Hungary. Turkey has a large current account deficit and a slowing economy, while Hungary has an external surplus and an economic recovery that's gathering pace. As for fund flows, the most closely watched data for EMs given the scale of the outflows from equity and bond funds this year, a bit of perspective is in order. In the bond markets, the data is heavily skewed by redemptions from mutual funds — particularly Europe and U.S.-based ones — and masks the continued inflows of institutional money which, for the time being, is staying put. Indeed, even in the more vulnerable EMs, such as Turkey and Indonesia, foreign holdings of local currency debt have not fallen significantly, suggesting that more sophisticated and less footloose institutional investors are still buying EM debt. While the recent phase of the sell-off has been indiscriminate, and there are plenty of reasons — both country-specific as well as China and U.S. Federal Reserve-related — to be concerned about EMs, this is not a full-blown crisis. Differentiation remains the watchword, and it's time the term "emerging markets" was jettisoned. This article originally appeared at Spiro Sovereign Strategy.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Frank Addante / TwitterRubicon's Frank AddanteRubicon Project, the giant ad serving company, has filed its S-1 papers with the SEC prior to launching an IPO. The move has been expected since at least 2012, when Addante was spotted carrying a pitch deck around town with investment bank logos on it. The disclosure solves a mystery in the adtech world: Just how big is Rubicon, which is known to be one of the bigger players? The answer: quite big. The company handles $1.2 billion in online advertising every year, the S-1 says, and books $20 million per quarter in revenue for doing so. It has $21 million in cash on its balance sheet, and 315 employees. AdExchanger says Rubicon CEO Frank Addante is seeking to raise $100 million from the offering. Interestingly, Rubicon has fewer employees than AppNexus, the other adtech giant that is also suspected to be an IPO candidate. AppeNexus has 500 or more workers. Here's a breakdown of the most important bits from the Rubicon accounts: SEC Note that Rubicon's losses on the bottom line can easily be reversed given its revenue growth rate. SEC SEC SEC *Correction: An earlier version of this story got this number wrong. FREE AppDownload
Mark Wilson/Getty Images The CBO released its new budget and economic projections today, and here's the finding everybody is talking about: By 2024, the Affordable Care Act will reduce full time-equivalent employment by about 2.5 million workers, compared to what it would be if the law hadn't gone into effect. This is about triple what the CBO estimated when it first scored the law in 2010. There's been a sort of annoying conversation about the report today, with conservatives saying "see? Obamacare kills jobs," and liberals insisting the reduction in labor supply is a good thing, because it reflects people choosing to work less once they're no longer tied to their jobs for health insurance. The truth is more complicated: The law will reduce work hours through several mechanisms, some of which are desirable and some of which aren't. Here are seven things you should know about Obamacare, jobs, and the CBO estimate: Broadly, one key goal of health policy should be to let people make work decisions without worrying about how those decisions affect their health insurance. The CBO report shows that Obamacare partly furthers that goal (by making insurance available to more people, regardless of income or employment status) and partly inhibits it (by withdrawing benefits from people who work more). Efforts to optimize the policy should focus on de-linking work decisions from insurance, not simply on maximizing the amount of labor supply. FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVU.S home prices are expected to have risen 10.2% in 2013, according to Case-Shiller. But are expected to cool, rising just 6.3% this year. Rising mortgage rates, tight inventory, and reduced affordability weakened housing demand. "Months’ supply, which is the ratio of inventory to sales, held at low levels through the year. This means that inventory has declined in tandem with the drop in sales," writes Bank of America's Michelle Meyer. And she thinks this is still a seller's market: "We expect this to become increasingly evident, resulting in a pickup in inventory this year. Housing completions are set to increase, catching up with the gain in housing starts. This will allow the buyers of new construction homes to move to their new properties and sell their existing. "Moreover, the rise in home prices has put many more homeowners in positive equity, making it more feasible to sell their property. A modest rise in supply would be a healthy development for the housing market as it would generate greater housing turnover and home sales. It will, however, also slow home price appreciation." The University of Michigan survey shows that 40% of respondents think now is a good time to sell their property, up from 20% a year ago. The data over the coming months could be impacted by the extremely cold weather but we'll keep an eye out for the overall trend. FREE AppDownload
Andrew H. Walker/Getty Michael Kors (left) became a billionaire Tuesday.Designer Michael Kors became a billionaire Tuesday as shares of his namesake company surged more than 18% to $90.68 after posting better-than-expected profit. The 54-year-old CEO owns about 2% of the luxury goods company, which is valued at about $390 million, and he has collected more than $700 million selling stock since its 2011 initial public offering, Bloomberg reports. The company's stock was surging Tuesday on news that its fiscal third-quarter profit jumped 77%, driven by sales growth in Europe and North America.  European same-store sales increased 73% in the third quarter while North American sales grew 24%, the company said.  Michael Kors has revised its 2014 profit outlook to a maximum $3.09 earnings per share, up from November's estimate of $2.77 to $2.81 earnings per share. FREE AppDownload
Itupictures/FlickrThe Baby Boomers were the most populous and richest generation to walk the earth.  Now, they are just the richest.  The Millennial Generation, or Generation Y, are the largest generation in human history.  Their story thus far bears a strong resemblance to the experiences of their parents.  The peak of the Baby Boom happened in 1957.  For their children, the Millennials, it came 36 years later in 1993 (Figure 1). Inside Investing In both cases, the peak population for young adults (defined here as 16 to 24 years old) happens two decades later. For Baby Boomers, this happened in 1980. Some 36 years later, for their children, it is happening now. To chart the voyage of Millennials in 2014 and beyond, we can observe what their parents did from 1980 on. Inside Investing Both generations came of age during the worst recessions since the Great Depression. By the time the Vietnam War ended in 1975, the Baby Boomers of their peak birth year (1957) were 18 years old.  When the United States withdrew the bulk of their forces for the Iraq war, Millennials from their peak birth year (1993) were also 18 years old. There are comparable elements between the common perception of Millennials and the views of the older generations about the Baby Boomer counter-culture. Finally, the perception of our institutions is likewise weakened: according to Gallup, confidence in federal government to solve domestic problems declined from 76% to 56% just between 1972 and 1976 before rebounding to the peak of 83% in 2001. Once again, confidence has declined — now down to just 42%. It could be said that the Millennial Generation is coming of age in much the same way as their parents did: in a depressed economy and demoralized society. Despite this, the Boomer generation still retires the richest in history — in money, real capital, and living standards. The institutions that the public had lost faith in, but were nonetheless preserved, delivered a better future. The term Lost Generation was created to describe the generation which came of age during WWI, and its use peaked in 1946. Google Ngram data ends in 2008, just in time for the term to be revived for the Millennials. The pessimism around the Millennial generation is, at best, premature. We already know that income scales with education, and the Millennial Generation will be the most educated in history. The oldest of the Millennials, 30–34s, have a much higher post-secondary attainment rate than than their parents: 45% to the 40% of 50–54s. Beyond education, income also scales with age. With the modal Millennial being 21 today, over the next decade millennials will likely make their largest age-based income gains (more than $22,000). With this higher income, 25–34's spend a great deal more, and more frequently form households. The Census Bureau forecasts an additional 30 million Americans in 10 years. This is in addition to the 22 million 20–24s who largely haven’t formed households, who will become 30–34s who have. Even using the densest household age bracket, 35–44s at 3.3, that is 16.25 million new households, or 1.625 million per year (Figure 4). This is largely consistent with other estimates, such as from the Federal Reserve’s Andrew Paciorek. Inside Investing The Cleveland Fed’s Timothy Dunne further estimates that there is a shortfall of 2.6 million households (occupied homes). Both papers outright disclaim any correlation to homebuilding, or the kind of homebuilding because the cyclicality of homebuilding and inventory is external to their models. Using vacancy data from the census to tell the supply or inventory story, we find surprisingly similar conclusions. Inside Investing The number of housing starts Per population strongly relates to the average of renter/homeowner occupancy. Moreover, average occupancy statistically leads starts, with a peak correlation at 20 months of 62.5%. This means the present occupancy rates explain nearly two-thirds of housing construction 20 months out. The simple linear model: -0.118 + 0.00130435*(100-(RHVRUSQ156N+RRVRUSQ156N)/2) leaves us with a present estimate of 1.7 million starts in two years, 70% higher than the present rate. The residuals, though the minority, are still large, and demonstrate that there are many frictions between demographics and construction. Newly formed households infrequently occupy newly constructed housing. Even in total, under-35 homeownership has remained comfortably below majority, even at the height of the housing boom. Any view that credit availability to younger households will be a serious deterrent is inconsiderate to the homeownership structure of young people. In reality, newly constructed homes are occupied by established households. They move up, sell or rent their previous dwelling to less established households, who then sell or rent to newly formed households. It’s easy to see how this process could lead to the frictions we’ve witnessed. Cyclicality in upper-end incomes and credit availability becomes the tail that can wag the dog, but the structural demand limitations ultimately win, as we saw in the premature or over building in the mid aughts. The unemployment rate for boomers around 1980 spiked to nearly the same magnitude as for their children three decades later (Figure 6). Private Residential Fixed Investment coincidentally collapsed  from 6% of GDP to 3% for the boomers, and from 5.2% to 2.4% for their children. One benefit the Millennials will have over the boomers is that the workforce will actually be getting younger at the same time that the population will be getting older. This will mean roughly the same number of peak-aged workers to serve the demand of an extra generation. Inside Investing The “youngening” of the labour force between 1960 and 1980 sharply reversed in 1980 as the largest generation began to dominate labour demographics (Figure 7). Once again, the largest generation will dominate the labour market, except this time it will be the Millennials. The quantity of Millennials who can join the work force is slightly larger than the size of their parents retiring from it. Inside Investing There are 300,000 baby boomers hitting 65 every month for the next 19 years. This has already distorted the anchoring for what a “healthy” Non-farm Payroll growth looks like. Inside Investing The decline of the activity rate is very much in line with the ratio of population to seniors. Usage of the activity or participation rate as a proxy for unemployment is consequently flawed. Inside Investing  This is where we reach the crest of the future opportunities of Millennials. The UN predicts that the dependency ratio (the ratio between peak-aged workers and those too young or old to work) is will rise more than 10 points to 32 in the next decade alone, and continuing with a shallower slope for decades after. If you poll some, the great twin threats to American labour are foreign debt and robots. The soaring dependency ratio in both the United States and abroad alters the calculus here: for future output to simply stay flat, productivity must increase at a faster pace than the dependency ratio rises. Our two top foreign Treasury debt holders, Japan and China, will be be experiencing an even more rapid and elongated rise in dependency ratio. The years of being able to export the surplus of working-aged labour are closing in those countries, while the United States has some of the most favourable working-aged demographics in the industrialized world. In this way, the Baby Boomers left their children an annuity of a sort — they paid foreigners money for decades that their children will exchange for labour. There will necessarily be more robots, or real capital. There will be more real capital, and the output of the country will become increasingly real capital intensive — that is, the usage of real capital as a factor of production will rise above the others. In the past, as the dependency ratio has remained relatively flat, this has led to surplus value accruing to the owners of real capital. In a future with a soaring dependency ratio, productivity through real capital formation will be to contain labour costs rather than capture surplus value. That is, to wit, the increasing dependency ratio will pressure the business sector to invest in productivity because labour will get relatively scarce as retirements stagnate the labour force. Invoking The Who, to the people talkin’ about my generation: The kids are alright.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Eduardo MunozPeople can't get enough whiskey.If you want evidence of the whiskey renaissance, look no further than Suntory's recent acquisition of Beam Inc. The Japanese liquor giant coughed up $13.6 billion for Beam — which distills the flagship Jim Beam and the higher-end Maker's Mark — making it the world's third-largest maker of distilled drinks. There's a major appetite for American whiskey these days. In 2013, bourbon and Tennessee whiskey exports broke the $1 billion mark for the first time ever, according to new data from the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States (DISCUS). "There's a bit of a taste for American heritage," said DISCUS CEO Peter Cressy. Not to mention, "Cocktail culture continues to grow." DISCUS, a trade organization that represents American distillers, outlined the booze industry for reporters and Wall Street analysts at an event this morning. And booze is booming. Here's what we learned. 1. Bourbon has absolutely exploded in recent years and has now crossed the $1 billion mark. DISCUS 2. Emerging markets can't get enough of American spirits. DISCUS 3. Exports to the EU have spiked ever since the U.S. and Europe eased tariffs in 1994. DISCUS 4. Exports to China have also jumped. DISCUS 5. For decades, whiskey was on the steady decline. DISCUS 6. But since 2009, whiskey is back. It's hard to attribute this to one thing. Tastes change. Just as "Sex and the City" brought back the Cosmo and cocktail culture, shows like "Boardwalk Empire" and "Mad Men" have propelled whiskey and rye in a big way. DISCUS 7. And when you break down the whiskey category, you can see how bourbon is leading the pack. DISCUS 8. Purists may despise flavored whiskey, but the category accounted for 45% of whiskey volume growth in 2013, according to DISCUS. Still, traditional whiskey accounted for 80% of revenue growth. 9. Other categories have seen impressive growth too. Tequila revenue was up 7.9% in 2013, while cognac volume grew 3.7%. FREE AppDownload
Facebook revealed that teens are starting to leave the social network. But despite the new social media trends, here's why you'll never really quit Facebook.  Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Brian Snyder/Reuters RadioShack is closing 500 stores, the Wall Street Journal is reporting, citing people familiar with the matter.  "It is unclear which of RadioShack's roughly 4,500 stores will be closed and when exactly the closings will begin, these people said, adding that it isn't unusual for companies to close stores when going through operational restructurings," Emily Glazer reports.  Shares are down 2% on the news.   The company's ad poking fun at its outdated image was one of the best-regarded commercials of the Super Bowl. FREE AppDownload
Yesterday's close marked the worst 8-day stretch for stocks since November 2011, but it looks like the bleeding in global markets has stopped for now. The S&amp;P 500 is up 0.9%, and the yield on the 10-year note is 2.63%, 5 basis points above yesterday's close. Meanwhile, gold is in the red, and the dollar is gaining against the euro and the yen, while emerging-market currencies are strengthening against the dollar. "Valuations between safe-haven and risk assets have adjusted so quickly that safe-haven assets may once again be deemed by investors as 'imperfect substitutes' for other, riskier and now-cheaper asset classes like global stocks or EM debt," say William O'Donnell and Gabriel Mann, interest rate strategists at RBS. There was relatively little in the way of new economic data from developed markets in Asia and Europe today. In the United States, the release of monthly factory orders data revealed that orders fell less than expected in December, but it was a non-event for markets. The charts below show action in various markets today. Across the top from right to left are the S&amp;P 500, the dollar-yen exchange rate, and the euro-dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, 10-year Treasury note futures, and the dollar-Turkish lira exchange rate. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
Two quick charts to illustrate the changing demographic composition of the American population: Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from U.S. Census Bureau) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from U.S. Census Bureau) FREE AppDownload
Here is a summary of the four market valuation indicators I update during the first days of the month. The four indicators are: To facilitate comparisons, I've adjusted the two P/E ratios and Q Ratio to their arithmetic means and the inflation-adjusted S&amp;P Composite to its exponential regression. Thus the percentages on the vertical axis show the over/undervaluation as a percent above mean value, which I'm using as a surrogate for fair value. Based on the latest S&amp;P 500 monthly data, the market is overvalued somewhere in the range of 51% to 82%, depending on the indicator, an increase from the previous month's 51% to 80%. I've plotted the S&amp;P regression data as an area chart type rather than a line to make the comparisons a bit easier to read. It also reinforces the difference between the line charts — which are simple ratios — and the regression series, which measures the distance from an exponential regression on a log chart.     The chart below differs from the one above in that the two valuation ratios (P/E and Q) are adjusted to their geometric mean rather than their arithmetic mean (which is what most people think of as the "average"). The geometric mean weights the central tendency of a series of numbers, thus calling attention to outliers. In my view, the first chart does a satisfactory job of illustrating these four approaches to market valuation, but I've included the geometric variant as an interesting alternative view for the two P/Es and Q. In this chart the range of overvaluation would be in the range of 63% to 95%, up from last month's 63% to 93%.     The Average of the Four Valuation Indicators The next chart gives a simplified summary of valuations by plotting the average of the four arithmetic series (the first chart above). I've also included a log-scale area chart of the real (inflation-adjusted) S&amp;P Composite along with recessions. At the end of last month, the average of the four equaled the average in July of 2007, three months before the market hit its all-time high prior to the Great Recession.     As I've frequently pointed out, these indicators aren't useful as short-term signals of market direction. Periods of over- and under-valuation can last for many years. But they can play a role in framing longer-term expectations of investment returns. At present market overvaluation continues to suggest a cautious long-term outlook and guarded expectations. However, at the today's low annualized inflation rate and the extremely poor return on fixed income investments (Treasuries, CDs, etc.) the appeal of equities, despite overvaluation risk, is not surprising. For more on that topic, see my periodic update:   Note: For readers unfamiliar with the S&amp;P Composite index, see this article for some background information. FREE AppDownload
January saw emerging market currencies take a beating. Investors have been pulling out of emerging market stock and bond funds. And now some are worried that this along with deterioration in those economies will do serious damage in the U.S. stock market and economy. "We don’t buy this bearish argument. We don’t expect much of a hit to U.S. earnings owing to current difficulties in the emerging markets," writes Joseph P. Quinlan, chief market strategist at U.S. Trust. Quinlan has two tables that show us just why he isn't worried. The first shows that of the top 20 export markets for the U.S. eleven are developing nations "but only two—Brazil (ranked 7th) and India (18th)—are of any significance when it comes to the current problems in the emerging markets." The other troubled emerging markets, Venezuela, Turkey, Argentina, and South Africa account for a much smaller percentage of its total exports.US Trust Moreover, a look at foreign affiliate sales — U.S. firms delivering goods and services through foreign affiliates — shows that only seven emerging markets make the list when we look at the top 20 markets for U.S. foreign affiliate sales. And Quinlan writes that this is a "much better gauge than exports." When looked at this way, of the fragile five, only Brazil features in the top 20. US Trust "The emerging markets spoiled January for investors, but it’s far too early to write off the entire year and too soon to give up on our tactical bias toward U.S. equities," Quinlan writes. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/libertygrace0One of the main options House Republicans are considering as an "ask" for a one-year increase in the debt ceiling is a repeal of the Affordable Care Act's "risk corridors," which Republicans have recently begun arguing is a "bailout" for insurance companies. But a new report from the Congressional Budget Office suggests that a repeal of those programs could actually lead to an increase in the deficit. According to the CBO's report, Obamacare's reinsurance risk corridor programs will save $8 billion over the next three years. The programs are set to expire in 2016. The CBO projects outlays of $208 billion and revenues of $215 billion "related to payments and collections for risk adjustment, reinsurance, and risk corridors" — which amounts to net receipts of about $8 billion. Previously, the CBO had projected no net budgetary effect. The "risk corridors" in question aim to make it easier for insurance companies to transition to the new health-care system, largely by making it less financially risky for them to sell new insurance plans on the exchanges established by the Affordable Care Act.  Until 2016, the risk corridors are set up so that the government would compensate insurance companies that have bigger costs than they expected while transitioning to the new system. The provision is designed to protect insurers that see an especially unhealthy pool of customers and end up with claims that are higher than expected. In the report, the CBO says that the programs will encourage insurers to offer coverage under new federal regulations and limit their incentives to avoid accepting high-cost enrollees. Democrats have pointed out that Republicans' sudden opposition to reinsurance and risk corridor programs flies in the face of similar provisions they supported as part of Medicare Part D. The risk programs in Medicare Part D are actually permanent. Twenty-two current Senate Republicans and many prominent House Republicans, including Speaker John Boehner and Majority Leader Eric Cantor, voted for Medicare Part D with risk provisions included. "Today’s CBO report shows that Republicans’ most recent debt-limit ransom idea would not only cause premiums to skyrocket for American families, it would also add billions to the deficit," Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.), the chair of the Senate Budget Committee, said Tuesday. "It’s a reminder that Republicans are so desperate to attack the Affordable Care Act that they will do or say just about anything, including throwing their own supposed principles on debt reduction under the bus. Republicans are clearly flailing over the debt limit, but we are not going to let them hijack the economy over bogus demands that are targeted more at settling internal political disputes than actually moving our economy forward responsibly." FREE AppDownload
NYC Mayor Bill de Blasio went into his first appearance on The Daily Show swinging. "I just wish we'd done a better job getting that snow up to the Upper East Side," he said. Residents of the affluent neighborhood complained that city cleanup crews — no longer under the management of one of their own, billionaire Michael Bloomberg — had ignored the "snow-torn" area during recent winter storms. De Blasio apologized for their inconvenience the first time, but after storms two and three the Mayor seems less willing to entertain their complaints. "Under Mayor Bloomberg, 12 years, never snowed once," host Jon Stewart joked. "I think he paid the right guy... he had the money," de Blasio retorted. After bantering about filling Mayor Bloomberg's "teeny tiny shoes" and how City Hall is reacting to Che Guevara posters everywhere, Stewart asked, "what else can we do to the Upper East Side?" "We have an experimental effort to get locusts up there," de Blasio joked. Upper East Side, consider yourself nationally trolled. Watch the video below:    FREE AppDownload
A New York townhouse is in contract to be sold to the nation of Qatar for $100 million, which, when completed, would make it the most expensive townhouse ever sold in the city. We caught up with Tal Alexander, half of the 20-something sibling duo who represented Qatar in the sale, to find out how the record deal went down. The story dates back to last year's United Nations Week, in late October, when representatives from Qatar reached out to Alexander, 27, and his brother Oren, 26, of Douglas Elliman's Alexander Team. Despite their age, the pair had made waves for the sale of the most expensive mansion in Miami, and had a number of other big-time deals under their belts. Qatar had actively been searching for a location for their New York consulate for at least a year by the time they reached out to the Alexanders. "I think they understood from day one that we were able to show them things they hadn't seen before," Tal Alexander told Business Insider. "We worked for our reputation of being able to make things happen. We have relationships with all the top brokers and focused on showing them off-the-market properties. They had been working with other brokers and they'd seen everything on the market, basically." While identifying a suitable building for a consulate was a new experience, Alexander said he was used to dealing with similarly demanding clients. Qatar had some particular requirements for a consulate building: The nations' Consul General Ahmed Yousef Al-Rumaihi sought a property that had substantial width — hard to come by in a city of slim townhouses — and a good set-up for security. Alexander reached out to the Corcoran Group’s Carrie Chiang, who he had worked with in the past. Google MapsThe 20,500 square-foot Wildenstein Building just sold to the state of Qatar for $100 million.As Chiang explained to The Real Deal, “I contacted my long-term clients, the Wildenstein family, to explore any possible interest in selling their mansion although the property was not on the market ... After reviewing the buyer’s request, my client agreed to the sale and the deal was consummated very quickly." The five-story Wildenstein Building, formerly an art gallery at 19 E. 64th St., has a steel frame and reinforced floors built to accommodate the weight of vaults. It is ready for the consulate to open this spring, shortly after the deal is expected to close in April.  "They jumped on it," Alexander said, "We got them to the right product in the right timing." The sale will result in a loss of nearly $400,000 in annual taxes to New York City because foreign governments don't pay real estate taxes, the Olshan Luxury Market Report noted this week. Nonetheless, closing the record deal represented months of work for the Alexanders. "It was very exciting, from the showings to being able to get the deal done," Alexander said. "Opportunities to work with a client like that, to find this type of property, don't come about every day in our business." Tal and Oren will visit Doha, the capital of Qatar, later this month. "I'm sure now that we've secured this property for the state of Qatar, if any other consulates are in the market, I think they can consider us," Alexander said "Going through every single townhouse on the Upper East Side, our knowledge of that market is excellent, and if any other parties are interested in this, we have opportunities to present." FREE AppDownload
Todd Korol/ReutersA worker holds a cup of heavy oil before it is processed at Cenovus Energy, as part of the tar sands project. The amount of harmful pollutants released in the process of recovering oil from tar sands in western Canada is likely far higher than corporate interests say, university researchers said Monday. Actual levels of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) emissions into the air may be two to three times higher than estimated, said the findings in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, a peer-reviewed US journal. The study raises new questions about the accuracy of environmental impact assessments on the tar sands, just days after a US State Department report said the controversial Keystone pipeline project to bring oil from Canada to Texas would have little impact on climate change or the environment. Current, government-accepted estimates do not account for the evaporation of PAHs from wastewater pools known as tailings ponds, which are believed to be a major source of pollution, said researchers at the University of Toronto. According to corporate interests which are responsible for projecting their environmental impact, the Athabasca oil sands beneath Alberta, Canada -- which hold the third largest reserve of crude oil known in the world -- are only spewing as much pollution into the air as sparsely populated Greenland, where no big industry exists. Lead study author Frank Wania, a professor in the department of physical and environmental sciences, described the corporate estimates as "inadequate and incomplete." "If you use these officially reported emissions for the oil sands area you get an emissions density that is lower than just about anywhere else in the world," he told AFP. "Only with a complete and accurate account of the emissions is it actually possible to make a meaningful assessment of the environmental impact and of the risk to human health," he added. The research began as a term paper project by his student, Abha Parajulee, and was funded only by internal resources at the University of Toronto, he said. Parajulee examined emissions estimates from environmental impact assessments that corporations must file with the government before any new projects can begin to coax oil from the Athabasca oil sands. She compared them with measurements in the field by academic scientists and by the federal ministry of the environment, known as Environment Canada. The industry estimates were way lower than the actual measurements, apparently because they did not include any escape of PAHs from tailings ponds, which are engineered dyke and dam systems built near mining operations in the oil sands to collect the water, sand, clay and residual oil left over from processing. Until now, they were not expected to be a source of pollution. PAHs are dangerous chemicals created in the burning of fossil fuels, and some are considered cancer-causing. They can also coat meats and other foods that are char-grilled. "The physical properties of these substances are such that if you put them in water they will partition into the atmosphere," said Jonathan Martin, an associate professor in the department of division of environmental toxicology at the University of Alberta. "It was shocking to me to understand that current environmental impact assessments do not take this into account at all," said Martin, who was not involved with the research but reviewed it before publication. "It just shows how little we know," Martin told AFP. He said PAH measurements need to be taken above tailings ponds to confirm the modeling projections, which would require big oil's permission. Environment Canada is interested in the findings and has agreed to fund more research going forward, Wania said. With the third largest crude oil reserves in the world after Venezuela and Saudi Arabia, Canada has predicted that oil sands development will bring in about $2 trillion over the next two decades. The US State Department's report on Friday raised no major objections to the controversial Keystone XL pipeline plan and said the pipeline would not in itself significantly increase greenhouse gases. The Keystone XL project aims to carry some 830,000 barrels of heavy crude a day from Alberta's oil sands south to Nebraska refineries before joining an existing pipeline to be shipped to Texas. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/ Slaven VlasicDavid GeithnerFormer Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner's younger brother David was laid off in a round of cuts at TIME Inc, the New York Post reports.  From the New York Post:  Gone in the cutbacks are David Geithner, an executive vice president who was in charge of the style and entertainment group that included number one money maker People magazine. Geithner is the brother of former Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner. Geithner had been working for Time Inc. for more than 20 years.  His older brother Tim Geithner made People's "50 Most Beautiful People" list in 2009. Several people in the media were questioning why then-Treasury Secretary made the list. It wasn't because he's a bad looking guy. A theory was tossed around that perhaps it was because his younger brother was a VP at TIME.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim Shemetov Russia's Ministry of Finance (MoF) has cancelled a government bond auction scheduled for February 5, Bloomberg reported. The "decision to cancel the auction was taken with a view to the current market conditions," according to the announcement. The MoF also cancelled last week's auction which was scheduled for January 29, citing the same reason. This comes after the recent emerging markets turmoil pushed yields on January 2028 bonds to record highs. "The Finance Ministry doesn’t want to send the signal that it’s comfortable borrowing at current rates,” Anton Nikitin at VTB Capital told Bloomberg. The ruble has taken a beating along with other emerging market currencies recently. And we've already looked at some long term issues plaguing the Russian economy. The country is too dependent on natural resources and shows symptoms of the Dutch disease — in which economies driven by commodities exports seeing their currencies get overvalued. That in turn hurts its own manufacturing sector by making imports cheaper. Most recently, Russia's HSBC PMI fall to 48, showing that manufacturing is contracting. We'll have our eyes peeled on more coming out of Russia. FREE AppDownload
Advisors and retail investors can access GMO’s asset allocation by buying the Wells Fargo Advantage Absolute Return instead of the GMO Benchmark-Free Allocation Fund and the Wells Fargo Advantage Asset Allocation Fund instead of the GMO Global Asset Allocation Fund. The minimum investment for the GMO Funds is $10 million, while the minimum investment for the Wells Fargo Funds is $1,000. I spoke with James on Jan. 28. How do you select the subjects on which you do research? Are there particular publications or information sources that offer good insight or inspirations for the topics you choose? It’s really tough. The inspiration comes from a wide variety of places, many of which are client-related. Often it comes from conversations with clients around their interests – smart beta and risk parity would be good examples. More often, though, I ask myself, “What do I actually think about that issue?” A lot of the time, I respond to the issues and the topics the markets throw up. Other times, it’s more direct. Once or twice I’ll come across something and think, “No, I really don’t agree with that.” Looking for the evidence that I disagree with is always useful, so I spend a reasonable amount of time reading people with whom I definitely do not agree. Jeremy Siegel is a pretty good example of somebody in that camp at the moment, with his views on the inadequacies of the Shiller cyclically adjusted price-earnings ratio (CAPE). Then I think about how I might battle with the potential logical flaws are in those arguments. REUTERS/Steve MarcusJeremy SiegelSiegel’s argument, if I understand it correctly, is not with the CAPE methodology. It’s with the underlying data that’s being used. He’s argued that the national income and products account (NIPA) data should be used rather than the S&amp;P data that Shiller has been using, and that if you use the NIPA data you come to different conclusions. What are your thoughts on that? The attacks on the CAPE are kind of odd, right? It hasn’t done a bad job. It works. A large part of me says, “Well, if it’s not broken, why the hell are you trying to fix it?” People say, “Well, valuations haven’t mean-reverted for the last 20 years.” My response is, “No, but returns, frankly, have been very poor for the last 20 years.” So there is no inconsistency between a high valuation and low returns. I think Siegel’s main point is that goodwill accounting misses half of the data. Yes, goodwill accounting has certainly increased the volatility of earnings. But also we had a situation during the crisis, somewhere around March 2009, almost exactly at the bottom, when the accounting authorities suspended FASB rule 157, which was the mark-to-market rule. All of a sudden, financial institutions could lie with impunity. They no longer had to recognize any of the impact of asset deterioration on their earnings. One can make an equal case on the other side that earnings probably recovered too fast because of that suspension of the rule. That may have created a rather weird pattern. Maybe those two patterns offset, and therefore that is one of the reasons you should take a 10-year average, as the CAPE methodology employs. The idea of replacing S&amp;P earnings with NIPA earnings is slightly surreal. The S&amp;P is a relatively small number of stocks, whereas NIPA effectively represents very much the entire economy. So the two constituents are very different. NIPA profits are at extreme highs right now, as are listed-market profits. Basing an evaluation on something that is at an all-time high is almost certainly going to make things look cheaper. To me, this is a strange way of honestly adjusting a valuation measure. I have not yet seen any evidence that the NIPA-adjusted series gives a better return forecast over time than the straight Shiller. That would have to be the hurdle. The burden of proof is on those who think the Shiller model is somehow not useful. How does your research impact the investment process at GMO? It very much depends on the topics. Something like smart beta or risk parity doesn’t have any huge impact on our portfolios, because they’re not things we particularly believe in any way. But I started doing some work on forecasting market returns. This is part of a project I’ve been involved with on profit margins, a topic about which I’ve written extensively. Margins have direct impacts on the forecasts, and ultimately those forecasts are what drive our portfolios. In early 2010 you published a white paper titled What Goes up Must Come Down, and in it you observed that the U.S. profit margins were at record highs and you are on the lookout for sound arguments as to why GMO might be wrong in its assumption of margin reversion. Do you have any additional thoughts at this point on why profit margins have remained so high? The macroeconomic framework that we used in that document, the Kalecki equation, still holds true. As I wrote in that paper, I wasn’t talking about the next 12 or even 24 months, but rather that margins would eventually come under pressure principally because governments were likely to end up tightening their fiscal belt, rightly or wrongly. They tend to do that over time. That was likely to drag down profits, and that remains the major source of concern. It probably won’t be this year in the U.S., because the budget deal that has been proposed has removed some of the sequestration pressure, though not all of it. But the pressure picks up again in 2016 and 2017. So, certainly within the time horizon of our forecast we would expect to have mean reversion of profit margins as our base case. You hear a lot of stories about low tax rates, low interest rates, globalization and sector differences. All of these are taken into account by the Kalecki equation. Low tax rates are a good example. People point out that corporate tax rates have never been lower, and that accounts for high profit margins. There’s an element of truth to that, but it’s actually exactly what the Kalecki equation says, because those low tax rates in the corporate sector imply that the government needs to run a greater deficit to maintain the same level of government spending. Sector differences are another one we come across. In the 1970s, we had a very different industrial composition in the market than the one we find today. But the reality is, that doesn’t account for anywhere near as much as the margin expansion as one imagines. If you applied the 1970s sector weightings to today, you would still get very, very high profit margins. Only about a percent of the profit margins can be explained by sector shifts over the intervening time period. None of those stories hold water. The most likely path is towards mean reversion over the next seven years. What about low interest rates? Have you looked at that in the context of the Kalecki equation? Low interest rates are another pretty good example of the framework, because ultimately those interest rates would have to be paid to somebody. It’s generally the household sector that benefits from higher interest rates. What that really means is that household savings have to be altered, because household income is less than it would be if you had high interest rates. The household-savings element of the Kalecki equation is where low interest-rate effect shows up. I haven’t been able to find an explanation that isn’t assumed within the Kalecki equation. I describe it as one of Tolkien’s rings. In the beginning of The Lord of the Rings, there’s a poem about having one ring that in the darkness finds them all, and to me, that is the real essence of the Kalecki equation. FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Farrell BuildingThe Hamptons' many hamlets have been a popular retreat for the wealthy for decades. The summertime months tend to bring well-heeled members of New York City's "it" crowd, who fill beautiful homes situated along the coast.  But now the work of one homebuilder has the potential to dramatically change the look of Hamptons real estate. Former oil commodities trader Joe Farrell began building mansions in the East End of Long Island in 1996, and the area hasn't looked the same since. Blue "Farrell Building" signs seem to pop up everywhere, advertising the multimillion dollar homes with gambrel shingle roofs that have come to be the builder's trademark.Courtesy of Farrell BuildingIt's a takeover so apparent that some have even started referring to the process as "Farrellization," The New York Times noted last simmer.  Part of the appeal of building with Farrell is the rapid speed with which his company can complete a project. A full-time staff of architects and contractors have established a system that allows them to finish a new mansion in under a year. These homes aren't cheap, either — before the recession, Farrell typically built huge houses that could sell for up to $20 million. Now the homes tend to be a bit smaller, averaging in the $3 million to $6 million range.  Farrell's own home is a testament to the luxury living one can find in the Hamptons. Known as the Sandcastle, the 31,000-square-foot home in Bridgehampton comes complete with a slick underground bowling alley, skate ramp, movie theater, and wine room. Farrell has never had problems finding high-profile summer renters, with Jay-Z and Beyonce reportedly spending $400,000 to spend a month there in the summer of 2012.  We caught up with Steve Pryzby, vice president of Farrell Building, to find out more about the company.  Business Insider: What do people tend to look for in homes in the Hamptons? Steve Pryzby: Location, views and proximity to the local beaches are the first items of discussion in the decision process. After that decision is made the home and its design fall into place rather easily but bedroom count and open floor plans play an essential role in creating the ultimate Hamptons getaway. BI: Are there any features that you would say are typical in a Hamptons home?  SP: Five+ bedrooms with a floor plan that emphasizes either the surrounding views or the rear property.  Customers expect the "wow factor" and we provide this by designing homes with a grand two-story high foyer which has unobstructed views through the great room overlooking the property as you enter the home. Courtesy of Farrell BuildingBI: Have you ever received any crazy requests for a home? SP: Not really anything far from ordinary. The majority of customers come to us to build a Farrell house based on the design and finishes they saw in other homes we’ve had on the market, and most importantly, the time frame in which we can complete a project. BI: Who are some of your buyers?  SP: The majority of our buyers are New York City residents with careers in the finance industry while we do have a few celebrities we are currently building for. BI: How many houses do you typically work on at once?  SP: It is not at all uncommon for us to have 25 to 30 projects going at any point throughout the year. We currently have 35 projects under construction with the capability of handling many more.Courtesy of Farrell BuildingA rendering of a home Farrell will soon start building on Bluff Road in Amagansett. BI: How was business in 2013? How is it going so far this year?  SP: 2013 was a busy year but 2014 is shaping up to be even busier. We usually see a slight dip in activity around the holidays and month following naturally but it has been an extremely active time in comparison to previous years. BI: How does it compare to business before the housing crash?  SP: Prices for land are fairly equal to if not surpassing pre-crash prices depending on location which has driven up the end user price, but we’ve been purchasing wisely and offering terrific product in very attractive price ranges.  The average size home currently is in the range of 5,000 to 6,000 square feet compared to earlier years where the average was 8,000 to 9,000 square feet. Jeff Cully of EEFAS shot the video below highlighting some of Farrell's homes from 2013.  FREE AppDownload
Win McNamee/Getty ImagesThe Congressional Budget Office on Tuesday said that the Affordable Care Act will contribute to the equivalent of 2 million workers out of the labor market by 2017, as employees work fewer hours or decide to drop out of the labor force entirely.  The CBO revised much of its outlook on the Affordable Care Act in a new report released Tuesday. It said that much of the loss would come from workers choosing to provide less labor, not from employers deciding not to hire workers because of the law. From the report: CBO estimates that the ACA will reduce the total number of hours worked, on net, by about 1.5 percent to 2.0 percent during the period from 2017 to 2024, almost entirely because workers will choose to supply less labor — given the new taxes and other incentives they will face and the financial benefits some will receive.  The reduction in the numbers of hours worked projected by the CBO will lead to the equivalent of 2 million fewer workers in the labor force in 2017. That number will rise to about 2.5 million in 2024. Previously, the CBO had estimated the equivalent of 800,000 fewer workers by 2021. "Although CBO projects that total employment (and compensation) will increase over the coming decade, that increase will be smaller than it would have been in the absence of the ACA," the CBO said in the report. More from the report: CBO has increased its estimate of the effect of a given reduction in aggregate compensation under the ACA on hours worked. CBO’s earlier estimate was based on a simplifying assumption that affected workers would have average earnings—in which case the percentage reductions in compensation and hours worked would be roughly the same. However, people whose employment or hours worked will be most affected by the ACA are expected to have below-average earnings because the effects of the subsidies that are available through exchanges and of expanded Medicaid eligibility on the amount of labor supplied by lower-income people are likely to be greater than the effects of increased taxes on the amount of labor supplied by higher-income people.  There is, of course, a disclaimer — the projections are subject to "substantial uncertainty" because of the broad, sweeping nature of a law that has yet to be fully implemented. The White House pushed back on interpretations of the report, saying that any claims the Affordable Care Act hurts jobs are "belied by the facts in the CBO report." "Over the longer run, CBO finds that because of this law, individuals will be empowered to make choices about their own lives and livelihoods, like retiring on time rather than working into their elderly years or choosing to spend more time with their families," Press Secretary Jay Carney said in a statement. "At the beginning of this year, we noted that as part of this new day in health care, Americans would no longer be trapped in a job just to provide coverage for their families, and would have the opportunity to pursue their dreams. In a statement, House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) said the report confirmed the "devastating impact of Obamacare on jobs." "For years, Republicans have said that the president’s health care law creates uncertainty for small businesses, hurts take-home pay, and makes it harder to invest in new workers," Boehner said. "The middle class is getting squeezed in this economy, and this CBO report confirms that Obamacare is making it worse." The CBO also revised its projection of 2014 enrollment in federal health exchanges, because of the early turmoil with the federal health exchange website HealthCare.gov. The office said that only 6 million people would likely sign up through the exchanges by a March deadline, down from an original projection of 7 million.  But the CBO expects the uptick in enrollment to continue for the next few years. By 2020, it said, only about 30 million people would be without insurance, down from 45 million this year. This post has been updated. FREE AppDownload
Argentines are up in arms over a shortage of ketchup packages at McDonald's restaurants across the country, Argentine newspaper Clarin reports. The paper compared the shortage to being as bad as the country running out of chimichurri to put on steak. Last month, Argentina devalued its currency in order to conserve its dangerously low supply of foreign currency reserves. For many, it was a sign that the government realized that it would have to act quickly to save the economy from repeating a 2001 scenario of soaring inflation, shortages, and debt. Representatives from McDonald's told Clarin that they would solve the shortage in a matter of days. In the meantime, the McDonald's Argentina twitter account sent out this message to calm its followers: In English: We would like to inform our followers that the shortage of ketchup in local McDonalds' is temporary, and will be resolved soon. We are handing out packages of other sauces in the meantime.   Ante la falta de kétchup en nuestros locales, queremos contarle lo siguiente a nuestros seguidores pic.twitter.com/Y1abD1bIt5 In subsequent tweets, McDonald's said that the shortage was a supply problem, but that did not calm ketchup fans who tweeted responses like — "You food without ketchup makes no sense! The ketchup is indispensable." Of course, this couldn't just be about the ketchup. Argentines tie shortages in with past economic disruption, and since the devaluation of the peso made prices shoot up, a ketchup shortage means more than just having to eat french fries with mayonnaise like the French. Another tweeter wrote: "A shame. I was charged 70 pesos for a combo and they didn't have ketchup. Let us know before we pay for our food."  Good luck guys. FREE AppDownload
Starbucks has become a global powerhouse, and the brand only plans to get bigger.  We compiled some facts about Starbucks that will blow your mind:  Mike Nudelman/Business Insider  FREE AppDownload
Bitcoin Center NYCAllan Stevo shouts out Bitcoin orders from a makeshift stand at the Bitcoin Center NYC. The floor of the New York Stock Exchange has been pretty quiet for years now, most of the trades having moved onto servers in New Jersey.   If you want real pit action, you need not travel very far: One block up Broad Street each Monday, the floor of the Bitcoin Center NYC comes alive with the shouts of traders exchanging bitcoin. They call it "Satoshi Square," after the digital currency's pseudonymous founder. In-person bitcoin trading began in Union Square this past summer, and has now moved to the center for the winter. Yesterday was the third week in a row that the Center, founded last month by real estate developer and Bitcoin enthusiast Nick Spanos, has hosted it.  Last night, about 100 people showed up, though fewer than a quarter actually went into the pit. Orders are taken in millibits, or thousandths of a bitcoin. With the average bitcoin price at a little more than $800, it's not very much. But the intensity is palpable.  Here's a taste:    Once orders were taken and closed, they were settled through Bitcoin wallets accessible on the traders' smart phones. It's relatively simple: The parties swap their public keys — basically, routing numbers — and transmit the agreed-upon amount changing hands.   Joe Weisenthal/Business Insider Mark Anthony is a former Amex Exchange cotton trader whose interest in technology led him to Bitcoin. He wore his old pit jacket to the floor: Joe Weisenthal/Business Insider Anthony said the open-outcry market remains in its infancy, but that it had certain advantages over electronic bitcoin exchanges. "If you went to [an electronic market], you'd have to leave your money there, maybe you'd get it out, and it could get stuck in Mt. gox," he said. "Here, anyone in New York City who wants to buy some bitcoin will learn this is a good place to put it." Michael Robinson, a 50-something New Yorker who declined to tell us his daytime profession, said he made more than $400, having sold a total of 1.2 bitcoins at current prices after having bought them some time ago for between $300 and $400. The main advantage he saw to pit trading was that one could avoid the exchange fees of the electronic sites. "I like buying and selling in this fluid environment, giving cash [in person] I think works pretty well," he said. "It just needs to generate a critical mass to get going."  Bitcoin wasn't the only currency being traded: Dogecoin, which now has the third greatest amount of trade volume of all cryptocurrencies, was also on offer:   One Dogecoin evangelist named Lewis brought his mining rig to the center. He explained that Dogecoin is the "backbone" of meme monetization and that, "All meme coins of the future are going to be pegged to doge." He also explained the popularity of Dogecoin by pointing to its fun, inviting vibe. Newbies are encouraged to ask dumb questions in a crowd that can be much less intimidating than the folks who are hardcore into Bitcoin (many of whom are quite ideological). Joe Weisenthal/Business InsiderThe majority of those in attendance were merely curious bystanders who'd heard enough about Bitcoin to want to know more. In artist and organizer Khorey Rice's case, accepting payment in bitcoin may be a way to drive more traffic to his website. Some, like Eric Green, a recent computer science graduate from Rensselaer, were skeptical. "It's a little hard to understand — the whole point of Bitcoin is that it's electronic," he said.  But as a computer science major, he said he still believed in Bitcoin itself.   Ultimately, the live trading is only going to be a minor (albeit enjoyable) aspect of the Bitcoin ecosystem. The real value here is giving people a place to congregate, swap ideas, party (there was free liquor) and just get stoked about the burgeoning Bitcoin community in New York. FREE AppDownload
After a pretty ugly start, earnings season has improved significantly. "Of the 251 companies that have reported earnings to date for Q4 2013, 74% have reported earnings above the mean estimate and 67% have reported sales above the mean estimate," said FactSet's John Butters on Friday. "The percentage of companies reporting EPS above the mean EPS estimate is above the 1-year (71%) average and the 4-year (73%) average." Analysts now expect Q4 earnings to reflect 7.9% growth, which is up sharply from 6.3% a week ago. This seemingly encouraging news is also hilariously ironic. You see, for months, stock prices had been rallying even as earnings estimates were being slashed. And for many, this is a big head-scratcher as earnings are the "mother's milk" for stocks. (We've written about it here, here, here, here, here, and here.)  In recent weeks, we've finally seen stocks sell-off. But ironically, the top of the market coincided with the bottom in Q4 earnings growth expectations. All of this reminds us that the stock market can appear quite irrational in the short-run. FactSet FREE AppDownload
Netflix announced today it would raise $400 million selling senior notes through 2024. The funds acquired from this offering would help it expand overseas and make more investments in creating original content, according to Variety. As it continues to compete with premium cable networks like HBO and Showtime, it's important for Netflix to continue to heavily invest in original programming. Netflix ended 2013 on a high note with 44 million subscribers and critical acclaim for original programming like "House of Cards" and "Orange Is The New Black." This year, Netflix earned its first Oscar nomination with "The Square," a documentary about the revolution in Egypt.  FREE AppDownload
CBO There's a brand new report out from the Congressional Budget Office on the deficit: The federal budget deficit has fallen sharply during the past few years, and it is on a path to decline further this year and next year. CBO estimates that under current law, the deficit will total $514 billion in fiscal year 2014, compared with $1.4 trillion in 2009. At that level, this year’s deficit would equal 3.0 percent of the nation’s economic output, or gross domestic product (GDP)—close to the average percentage of GDP seen during the past 40 years. As it does regularly, CBO has prepared baseline projections of what federal spending, revenues, and deficits would look like over the next 10 years if current laws governing federal taxes and spending generally remained unchanged. Under that assumption, the deficit is projected to decrease again in 2015—to $478 billion, or 2.6 percent of GDP. After that, however, deficits are projected to start rising—both in dollar terms and relative to the size of the economy—because revenues are expected to grow at roughly the same pace as GDP whereas spending is expected to grow more rapidly than GDP. In CBO’s baseline, spending is boosted by the aging of the population, the expansion of federal subsidies for health insurance, rising health care costs per beneficiary, and mounting interest costs on federal debt. By contrast, all federal spending apart from outlays for Social Security, major health care programs, and net interest payments is projected to drop to its lowest percentage of GDP since 1940 (the earliest year for which comparable data have been reported). The large budget deficits recorded in recent years have substantially increased federal debt, and the amount of debt relative to the size of the economy is now very high by historical standards. CBO estimates that federal debt held by the public will equal 74 percent of GDP at the end of this year and 79 percent in 2024 (the end of the current 10-year projection period). Such large and growing federal debt could have serious negative consequences, including restraining economic growth in the long term, giving policymakers less flexibility to respond to unexpected challenges, and eventually increasing the risk of a fiscal crisis (in which investors would demand high interest rates to buy the government’s debt). After a frustratingly slow recovery from the severe recession of 2007 to 2009, the economy will grow at a solid pace in 2014 and for the next few years, CBO projects. Real GDP (output adjusted to remove the effects of inflation) is expected to increase by roughly 3 percent between the fourth quarter of 2013 and the fourth quarter of 2014—the largest rise in nearly a decade. Similar annual growth rates are projected through 2017. Nevertheless, CBO estimates that the economy will continue to have considerable unused labor and capital resources (or “slack”) for the next few years. Although the unemployment rate is expected to decline, CBO projects that it will remain above 6.0 percent until late 2016. Moreover, the rate of participation in the labor force—which has been pushed down by the unusually large number of people who have decided not to look for work because of a lack of job opportunities—is projected to move only slowly back toward what it would be without the cyclical weakness in the economy. Beyond 2017, CBO expects that economic growth will diminish to a pace that is well below the average seen over the past several decades. That projected slowdown mainly reflects long-term trends—particularly, slower growth in the labor force because of the aging of the population. Inflation, as measured by the change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE), will remain at or below 2.0 percent throughout the next decade, CBO anticipates. Interest rates on Treasury securities, which have been exceptionally low since the recession, are projected to increase in the next few years as the economy strengthens and to end up at levels that are close to their historical averages (adjusted for inflation). Read the full report here &gt; FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Natalie BehringJCPenney's same-store sales rose 2% in the fourth quarter, marking the department store's first quarterly gain in more than two years. CEO Mike Ullman said the gains show the company's turnaround is on track. The last time that JCPenney showed positive quarterly same-store sales growth was in July 2011.  The company has been cutting prices aggressively to bring shoppers back since former CEO Ron Johnson was fired in April. Johnson was highly criticized for alienating millions of customers by doing away with discounts and coupons. The company recently announced plans to close 33 underperforming stores and lay off more than 2,000 workers.  FREE AppDownload
AP PhotosFactory orders fell 1.5% in December, this was less than expectations for a 1.8% fall. November's reading was revised down to show a 1.5% rise, from an initial reading of a 1.8% rise. New orders for manufactured durable goods fell 4.2% to $230 billion. Here's the summary from the report:  New orders for manufactured goods in December, down two of the last three months, decreased $7.2billion or 1.5 percent to $489.2 billion, the U.S. Census Bureau reported today. This followed a 1.5 percent November increase. Excluding transportation, new orders increased 0.2 percent.  Shipments, down following five consecutive monthly increases, decreased $1.2 billion or 0.2 percent to $492.7 billion. This followed a 0.8 percent November increase.  Unfilled orders, up ten of the last eleven months, increased $3.9 billion or 0.4 percent to $1,061.7 billion. This was at the highest level since the series was first published on a NAICS basis in 1992 and followed a 0.9 percent November increase. The unfilled orders-to-shipments ratio was 6.53, up from 6.44 in November. Inventories, up twelve of the last thirteen months, increased $2.9 billion or 0.5 percent to $636.6 billion.This was also at the highest level since the series was first published on a NAICS basis and followed a 0.1 percent November increase. The inventories-to-shipments ratio was 1.29, up from 1.28 in November. Click here for the full press » FREE AppDownload
25-year-old Matt Luongo has started Cardforcoin, which will buy your Starbucks gift card from you in Bitcoins, usually at 60-70% of your card's value to cover fees associated with conversion. Since there's no minimum balance required (e.g. you have a leftover card with 60 cents on it), Luongo hopes it'll move people to acquire their first Bitcoins and start using the anonymous digital currency. Cardforcoin appears to be something of a Bitcoin missionary effort to get people interested in Bitcoin. That's all there is to it! Here's how Luongo explains it on his site: Screenshot FREE AppDownload
After a five-month search, Microsoft has named Satya Nadella its new CEO. He's the third CEO in the company's history. Nadella, 46, is the executive vice president in charge of Microsoft's cloud and enterprise group, a fast-growing and lucrative division of the company. He's been a Microsoft employee for over 20 years and has worked as a VP in the company's business and online services divisions. It's not a big surprise Microsoft's board picked Nadella. Last week, several reports began trickling out that Microsoft had chosen him. The company's board reportedly made its final vote over the weekend, only taking a break to watch the Seattle Seahawks win the Super Bowl. Bill Gates will step down as Microsoft's chairman and serve as a "technology advisor" for new consumer products. John Thompson, who was the independent director for the board of directors, is Microsoft's new chairman. Microsoft began looking for a new CEO in August when Steve Ballmer announced he'd retire within a year or as soon as the board could find a replacement. Ballmer's decision to retire was a surprise, as he had previously said he didn't plan to do it until all his kids were in college, which wouldn't have been until 2017 at the earliest. Ballmer stepped down as CEO today and Nadella will begin his new job immediately. The board reportedly considered a few outside hires for the job, including Ford CEO Alan Mulally. It's likely that the board's decision to pick an internal candidate means it wants the company to continue its course. Right now, Microsoft is still struggling to catch up with the consumer shift to mobile computing devices like smartphones and tablets. Its newest operating system, Windows 8, is hybrid software designed to work on regular desktop or laptop computers plus touchscreen devices like tablets. But Windows 8 got a lukewarm reception, and Microsoft is now working on updates to make it easier to use on traditional computers. Meanwhile, Microsoft's other businesses like Office and Xbox are doing pretty well. If Microsoft's board had landed on an outside hire, that would've been a sign that the company wanted to change its direction and possibly focus on the growing parts of its business like enterprise software. Microsoft Corp. today announced that its Board of Directors has appointed Satya Nadella as Chief Executive Officer and member of the Board of Directors effective immediately. Nadella previously held the position of Executive Vice President of Microsoft’s Cloud and Enterprise group.  “During this time of transformation, there is no better person to lead Microsoft than Satya Nadella,” said Bill Gates, Microsoft’s Founder and Member of the Board of Directors. “Satya is a proven leader with hard-core engineering skills, business vision and the ability to bring people together. His vision for how technology will be used and experienced around the world is exactly what Microsoft needs as the company enters its next chapter of expanded product innovation and growth.”  Since joining the company in 1992, Nadella has spearheaded major strategy and technical shifts across the company’s portfolio of products and services, most notably the company’s move to the cloud and the development of one of the largest cloud infrastructures in the world supporting Bing, Xbox, Office and other services. During his tenure overseeing Microsoft’s Server and Tools Business, the division outperformed the market and took share from competitors.  “Microsoft is one of those rare companies to have truly revolutionized the world through technology, and I couldn’t be more honored to have been chosen to lead the company,” Nadella said. “The opportunity ahead for Microsoft is vast, but to seize it, we must focus clearly, move faster and continue to transform. A big part of my job is to accelerate our ability to bring innovative products to our customers more quickly.”  “Having worked with him for more than 20 years, I know that Satya is the right leader at the right time for Microsoft,” said Steve Ballmer, who announced on Aug. 23, 2013 that he would retire once a successor was named. “I’ve had the distinct privilege of working with the most talented employees and senior leadership team in the industry, and I know their passion and hunger for greatness will only grow stronger under Satya’s leadership.”  Microsoft also announced that Bill Gates, previously Chairman of the Board of Directors, will assume a new role on the Board as Founder and Technology Advisor, and will devote more time to the company, supporting Nadella in shaping technology and product direction. John Thompson, lead independent director for the Board of Directors, will assume the role of Chairman of the Board of Directors and remain an independent director on the Board.  “Satya is clearly the best person to lead Microsoft, and he has the unanimous support of our Board,” Thompson said. “The Board took the thoughtful approach that our shareholders, customers, partners and employees expected and deserved.”  With the addition of Nadella, Microsoft’s Board of Directors consists of Ballmer; Dina Dublon, former Chief Financial Officer of JPMorgan Chase; Gates; Maria M. Klawe, President of Harvey Mudd College; Stephen J. Luczo, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Seagate Technology PLC; David F. Marquardt, General Partner at August Capital; Nadella; Charles H. Noski, former Vice Chairman of Bank of America Corp.; Dr. Helmut Panke, former Chairman of the Board of Management at BMW Bayerische Motoren Werke AG; and Thompson, Chief Executive Officer of Virtual Instruments. Seven of the 10 board members are independent of Microsoft, which is consistent with the requirement in the company’s governance guidelines that a substantial majority be independent. Founded in 1975, Microsoft (Nasdaq “MSFT”) is the worldwide leader in software, services and solutions that help people and businesses realize their full potential. FREE AppDownload
The Institute for Supply Management says New York metro area business condition growth improved to 64.4 in January. The December reading was 63.8. There was no consensus expectation. The employment score hit 60.7, a three-year high. Chart: ISM Full release » We got a bunch of weak manufacturing data Monday, so this is a welcome respite.  Here are the charst for the headline figures: ISM New York FREE AppDownload
Home prices, including those of distressed sales, were up 11%  on the year in December, according to CoreLogic's latest home price report. This is the 22nd straight month of gains.  On a month-over-month basis, home prices were down a modest 0.1%. Ex-distressed sales home prices were up 9.9% year-over-year in December, and up 0.2% on the month. "Last year, home prices rose 11 percent, the highest rate of annual increase since 2005, and ten states and the District of Columbia reached new all-time price peaks," Dr. Mark Fleming, chief economist for CoreLogic said in a press release. "We expect the rising prices to attract more sellers, unlocking this pent-up supply, which will have a moderating effect on prices in 2014." Here are some details from the report: Here's a trajectory of home prices including and excluding distressed homes since January 2002: FREE AppDownload
Flickr via highwaysagencyComing up with a personal investment strategy can be overwhelming. That's why it's important to understand the basics of the equation. Whether you have a financial advisor, get help from your friends and family, or are your own consultant, there are three key questions you need to ask before creating a portfolio strategy, according to a new report from the Motley Fool's Robert Brokamp. Each question will help you grasp an issue that is directly relevant to either you or your investments. They are: 1. What's the time horizon for your portfolio? Knowing how long you need your money to last is essential to creating a portfolio strategy. You should outline when you plan to begin making withdrawals on the portfolio and any major contributions you foresee, Brokamp writes. 2. How risk-averse or risk-tolerant are you? Some people aren't fazed by the ups and downs of the market, while others find them unbearably stressful. "Figuring out where on the spectrum you fall is important because it not only will dictate your investing strategy, but it will also ensure that you concentrate on what matters most to you (family, hobbies, retirement) — instead of constantly worrying about your portfolio," Brokamp explains. 3. What's currently in your portfolio? Trying to create a new portfolio strategy without considering your existing assets — and the limitations on them — is a rookie mistake. "It's impossible to paint a new picture without evaluating the old one," Brokamp writes. For more personal investing tips, check out the full report here. FREE AppDownload
The chairman of the Institute for Supply Management, which conducts the survey, blamed the weather for some of the weakness in the results. The eastern half of the US is experiencing one of its 10 coldest winters on record, with thousands of local records for cold already tied or broken. So the M-PMI hit an ice patch rather than a soft patch. I’m not sure that makes sense. Why would orders be down so much just because the weather was bad? More perplexing is that the average of six regional business surveys showed solid gains last month, although they too were mostly hit by the bad weather. Furthermore, Markit reported yesterday that its final M-PMI for the US dipped from 55.0 during December to 53.7 last month. No big deal. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Soft Patch or Ice Patch? (1) New month, old worries. (2) Chill now, thaw later. (3) Plunge in national M-PMI doesn’t jibe with regional surveys. (4) Markit’s M-PMI showing life. (5) Lots of upbeat M-PMIs around the world. (6) Eurozone factory index at 32-month high. (7) Our FSMI is at 1700, around key support for S&amp;P 500. (8) P/E correction. (9) Guidance and headlines depressing Q1 earnings estimates. (10) Focus on market-weight-rated S&amp;P 500 auto-related industries. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
His appointment coincide with news that Bill Gates will leave his position as chairman of the board, to become an advisor to the company. Nadella's appointment is interesting and possibly controversial for investors. That's because when Steve Ballmer stepped down it was because he thought Microsoft needed fresh blood. "The best way for Microsoft to enter a new era is with a new leader who will accelerate change," Ballmer told the Wall Street Journal. Nadella isn't exactly be fresh blood but he is well respected at Microsoft and in the industry. As new broke that he would be named CEO, Box CEO Aaron Levie tweeted this nice thing about him. Satya is a *very* strong pick for CEO. Understands how to build platforms, gets the cloud, and has a solid vision for the future. Here's a rundown of who he is and why he's a good choice to lead the company. Basically, he knows the business inside and out: If you've never seen him or heard him speak, here's an interview he gave in December.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaJanuary 31st marked the Lunar New Year, and this is a time when many flock to temples and light incense and pray for the new year. China News, cited by Chinascope, reported that a temple in Zhejiang Province used this opportunity to jack up prices for the chance to light the first incense. The temple reportedly charged $19,470 to light the first incense. It's believed that lighting the first incense will ensure that their wish comes true. From Chinascope:  China News carried an article about a phenomenon that took place on the eve of the Chinese New Year: tens and thousands of people lined up outside of Buddhist temples overnight to fight for the opportunity to burn the first incense while making their New Year wishes. At the same time, the temples grasped at the chance to raise the price. It was reported that, this year, one temple in Zhejiang Province priced the first incense at 118,000 yuan (US $19,470). Due to overcrowding, numerous accidents have occurred each year, causing security concerns. In Yangzhou, Jiangsu Province, the police force was called in to guard people's safety. The article said that people carry misconceptions and are misled by the belief that the first incense will make their New Year wishes come true.  We hope the top bidder got his/her wish. FREE AppDownload
As convicted felons go, Jordan Belfort has done pretty well for himself since leaving prison. He's a motivational speaker. He's an author. Leonardo DiCaprio played him in "The Wolf of Wall Street." And though he's made ongoing restitution payments, prosecutors say Belfort has been shirking his responsibility. Since much of "The Wolf of Wall Street" felt arguably more like hagiography than satire, Belfort has become the de facto star of the film. So now, of course, he's a meme. Check out this photo we saw being shared on Facebook. There are more like it too.  Facebook Achieve your goals, kids!  FREE AppDownload
I stayed in a hotel last night, which means that, today, I qualify as a subscriber to USA Today. Specifically, I found an unrequested USA Today outside my door when I woke up. It's still there. But the front page did seem to warrant a quick photo as I stepped over it. As I recall, the last time I saw a USA Today, a month or two ago, the paper's main headline was suggesting that the stock market was entering a big new bull market. That headline caught my attention because of the famous "cover jinx." The cover jinx holds that when general newspapers and magazines proclaim that something is happening in the markets, it's usually time to go the other way. The Dow is down almost 10% since that bullish headline. As I have said frequently over the past few months, I think the recent market drop may be only the beginning. I think stocks could end up falling 40%-50% from the peak over the next couple of years. In case that sounds cataclysmic, I've also said that I'm not selling the stocks I own and that I don't know what the market is going to do, especially over the short term. The one thing I am relatively confident about is that stocks are very expensive and that stock performance over the next 7-10 years is likely to be crappy. Anyway, today USA Today has put the stock market on the front page again. And this time, the headline is actually ostensibly bearish: "Investors brace for bigger drop." If investors really are bracing for a bigger drop — and selling in fear of it — that's actually modestly bullish. Once everyone's bearish, there will be no one left to sell, and the market will go up. So maybe, in the short term, this dip will be a "buying opportunity." But based on valuation — stocks remain startlingly expensive — I still think stocks are likely to deliver lousy returns from these levels over the next 7-10 years. USA Today, Business Insider FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstA few pedestrians wait to cross the street to the U.S. Capitol in Washington, October 2, 2013.From Greg Valliere at Potomac Research, a quick heads up on some news that will be coming later. FRESH BUDGET ESTIMATES, set for release today, are likely to show continueddramatic improvement in the deficit over the next two or three years; the receipt and outlay trends are remarkable. We've been predicting this for over a year -- and as it becomes more widely accepted, it's time to look at one very big negative that accompanies this great story. However, the budget news might make some budget hawks unhappy, as Valliere points out.   COMPLACENCY SETS IN: Exactly a year ago, it appeared likely that a modest change to the Cost of Living Adjustment would win enactment in 2013, imposing a very small reduction to most Social Security recipients and federal retirees -- a foot in the door for entitlement reform. But that idea is totally dead; Democrats never liked it and Republicans are focusing almost exclusively on Obamacare. The numbeers come out at 10 AM today. We'll be covering. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jon WooHONG KONG — It’s a favorite pastime: Americans worried about their country’s direction love threatening to move abroad. “That’s it, I’m going to Canada!” they say. Of course, they almost never do. In China, however, that’s now no idle threat, especially for the rich.   Amid a widening crackdown on corruption, China’s wealthiest citizens are increasingly seeking a better life abroad. The United States is their favored destination.   That’s the surprising conclusion of a new Hurun Report survey of 393 Chinese millionaires. According to the report, 64 percent of wealthy Chinese (those with $1.6 million or more) have emigrated or are planning to do so. Hurun also found that a third of the super-rich (those with $16 million or more) have established homes elsewhere. A higher percentage of the wealthy favor sending their offspring overseas. Eighty percent want their children educated abroad. The US is the top choice for university, and the second choice (behind the UK) for high school. The reason? China’s elite are not big fans of the country’s rigid education system. Even more striking is the surge in wealthy Chinese getting green cards. In 2010, 772 Chinese received investor green cards (given to people who invest at least $1 million in businesses in the US). In 2012, that figure leapt nearly eightfold to 6,124.   Why the exodus among families who have benefited most from China’s rise? Aside from education, another obvious motivator is pollution. China’s toxic air and poisonous water are regular topics of complaint among the wealthy (as well as ordinary Chinese). A less obvious factor is the crackdown on corruption. Over the last year, Chairman Xi Jinping has overseen investigations into some of China’s wealthiest and most powerful party figures, including those who have profited massively from the state-owned oil industry. He has vowed to take down both “tigers” (top bosses) and “flies” (local officials). In January, Xi stepped up his campaign by forbidding the promotion of officials who have spouses or children living abroad. These so-called “naked” officials are seen as especially prone to corruption. “They belong to a high-risk group for corruption,” a party official told the state-run Xinhua news agency. “Around 40 percent of economic cases and nearly 80 percent of corruption and embezzlement cases involve naked officials.” In China, crimes like fraud, bribery, and embezzlement are referred to as economic cases. This designation covers a large group. According to a report by the Hong Kong newspaper Oriental Daily, a majority of members of China’s 2013 National People’s Congress were “naked officials.” In fact, Xi himself was one, too. His daughter attended Harvard under an assumed name, and the chairman’s extended family has allegedly amassed assets worth several hundred million dollars. Of course, it’s not just wealthy Chinese who are leaving the country in droves. According to areport by the Center for China and Globalization, more than 9 million Chinese emigrated last year, most of them middle-income earners between 35 and 55 years old. The US was the top destination, with 81,784 Chinese receiving permanent residency in 2012. For Americans who feel insecure about their country in light of China’s impressive achievements, it may be reassuring to know that, when given the means, many Chinese would rather move to the United States than stay at home. This article originally appeared at GlobalPost.  Copyright 2014. Follow GlobalPost on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
reddit/imgur/Phaenthi BI contributor Randy Olson passed along this map, created by reddit user Phaenthi, that presents U.S. states and corresponding countries with similar GDP. Olson, who moderates the subreddit DataisBeautiful, noted that the map is not adjusted for population size "e.g., Minnesota has a population of ~5.5 million and Nigeria has a population of ~175 million." California is the obvious powerhouse, with a GDP of about $2 trillion in in 2012 compared to Canada's 2012 total of about $1.82 trillion. And the 2012 GDP of Texas was about $1.4 trillion, making it considerably bigger than Mexico $1.18 trillion. New York saw a 2012 GDP of about $1.2 trillion compared to South Korea's $1.12 trillion. Illinois ($695 billion 2012 GDP), driven by private industries and manufacturing, is comparable to Saudi Arabia ($711 billion) and its oil-driven economy. A couple of other surprises: Colorado (at $274 billion) is bigger than Egypt (at $254 billion) and Indiana (at $298 billion) is considerably bigger than Israel (at $241 billion). The 2012 GDP of the entire United States was about $16.2 trillion.
REUTERS/Dave KaupOpen-outcry wheat traders work on the floor of the Kansas City Board of Trade.Good morning! Dave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus passes along the top topics about which people are talking today: Yesterday was the worst Feb start since 1933 (lost another 15% that month) - While the VIX, % NYSE Stocks under 200dma, and ARMS showed oversold conditions – we did not get the same confirmation from the Put/Call, TICK and “Overbought/Oversold” indices yesterday.   With the DJIA and Nikkei under the 200dma, focus points toward support for the S&amp;P’s 200dma near 1707.   Angst is building quick into our Employment Print Friday, as the ISM has decent predictive power into that number.   Right now US futures are up 40bp, while overseas markets are playing catch-up to yesterday’s smackdown.   The DAX is off 1%, but EU fins trading near unchanged in decent volume.  In Asia, Japan was crushed for 4.4%, worst drop since June, now off 14% from itsDec31 Peak as the Yen surges (Futures are up 1% right now).   While Shanghai and Taiwan remain shut for Holiday, Hong Kong reopens and looses 3% in heavy trading.   Aussie was hit sharply as their Central Banks lost their dovish tone, sending the A$ surging higher.    Focus will remain on the VIX, which posted a close above 20 in record volumes (1st since October, only 2nd time in last year).  Right now VIX futures are marked 3% lower, and despite the weakness overseas, EU’s VIX is off 2%.The 10YY is popping, after nearing a test of the 200dma overnight (2.55%) – and we have stability in EM FX, with Turkish lira, South African rand, Indian rupee, Brazilian Real and Hungarian forint all higher against the $.   The € is slightly weaker against the $, as the WSJ opines that the Euro is getting “Safe Haven” status.   Focus should be on the US Treasury’s Bill Auction at 11:30 – They are auctioning off $8B in 4 week Bills that mature on March 6th – and right now that paper is indicated to yield 11bp, well above the 0bp Bills normally yield, as the “Debt Ceiling” looms large.  The DXY has a bid right now (but capped by the 200dma, where it failed last week) – so Commodities have a slight headwind.   That said, we see Copper higher (China optimism?) – Nat Gas jumping 2% (Another Winter Storm approaches) – and WTI outperforming Brent (Storage Data tonight expected to show a huge Cushing draw).   ‘safe Haven” gold is getting hit – could be Margin Call from Asia/EU – or it could be a reversal in the rush for safety.    Today’s Scheduled Catalysts includes Lacker (Huge Hawk) speaking at 8:30 on the Economy, Lew speaking at 9 on the Debt Limit, ISM for NY at 9:45, Factory Orders for Dec at 10, a $2.25-$2.75B POMO at 11, the 4week auction at 11:30, Fed’s Evans (Huge Dove) speaking at 12:30, and API data for Crude at 4:30 tonight. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mohamed AzakirForensic inspectors and Lebanese army soldiers inspect the wreckage of a van at the site of an explosion in Choueifat, south of the capital February 3, 2014. A suicide bomber killed himself and one other person when he detonated explosives in a van in southern Beirut on Monday, a Lebanese security source said. Lebanese television footage showed the chassis of a vehicle with no roof. Smoke rose in the air and debris lay on a street. Body parts, including a head, were on the road. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. — U.S. markets appear to have stabilized somewhat this morning after a big sell-off yesterday. In a reversal of recent moves, S&amp;P 500 futures are up nicely, U.S. Treasury note futures and gold futures point to declines, and the dollar is gaining against the euro and the yen, while emerging-market currencies are gaining against the dollar. Overnight in Asia, however, markets were down big — the Japanese Nikkei 225 fell 4.2% and the Hong Kong Hang Seng, which was closed in recent sessions for the Lunar New Year as other markets around the world sold off, fell 2.9%. And in Europe, stock markets are in the red across the board, with Germany's DAX leading indices lower. — Vehicle sales unexpectedly fell to 15.2 million units at a seasonally adjusted annualized rate in January from 15.3 million in December. Economists were looking for a rise to 15.7 million SAAR. Many auto manufacturers — including General Motors, Ford, Toyota, and Honda — cited unseasonably cold weather last month as a factor behind the drop. — The Reserve Bank of Australia left its benchmark policy rate unchanged at 2.5%, as expected. However, the central bank got rid of the easing bias in its policy statement by adding the line, "On present indications, the most prudent course is likely to be a period of stability in interest rates," and the Australian dollar surged. "There is some back and forth on domestic developments, but, together, these statements suggest that the exchange rate is approaching levels at which the RBA is more comfortable and that policymakers are removing the threat of using their most powerful tool to drive it lower (changes in interest rates)," says Todd Elmer, an FX strategist at Citi. "This will be viewed by the market as an all-clear signal on the currency and is likely to invite a further reversal of short-positions among leveraged investors." — The release of results of Markit's monthly U.K. construction Purchasing Managers Index survey revealed the sharpest rise in construction output last month since August 2007. The PMI unexpectedly rose to 64.6 from December's 62.1 reading. "Housing activity growth now stands at its strongest for just over a decade, boosted by growing demand for new homes and improving confidence within the UK property market," said Tim Moore, a senior economist at Markit, in the release. "Meanwhile, strengthening domestic economic conditions spurred greater spending on commercial projects in January. A sharp rise in civil engineering activity completed an impressive showing from all three sub-categories of construction monitored by the survey." — Shares are UBS are higher after the Swiss bank reported earnings that tripled analysts' consensus estimate. "All in, this is a mixed set of results. On the positive side, there is a substantial 'beat' on capital," wrote Goldman Sachs analysts in a note. "On the negative side, the all-important trends in the private bank were muted — flat margin, and in-line net new money." — Shares of Yum! Brands are higher in pre-market trading following the release of earnings results for the quarter ended December 31. Earnings per share were $0.86, above the $0.79 consensus estimate, but revenues were only $4.19 billion, versus expectations for $4.25 billion. Same-store sales fell in the fourth quarter, but the company reaffirmed its forecast for double-digit earnings growth this year. — At 8:30 AM ET, Richmond Fed president Jeffrey Lacker will speak on the economy. At 12:30 PM, Chicago Fed president Charlie Evans will speak on monetary policy. Monthly U.S. factory orders data are due out at 10:00 AM. Economists predict total orders fell 1.8% in December after rising 1.8% in November. Follow the data LIVE on Business Insider » — The ranks of the unemployed in Spain rose 2.4% in January from the previous month as Christmas-season jobs ended, but fell 3.3% from the previous year — marking the best January for the labor market since 2007. Youth unemployment rose 4.0% from a month earlier, but fell 7.5% from a year earlier. — "Of note, a new poll out in Italy suggests that under the new electoral reform, a center-right coalition (ostensibly led by Berlusconi) would win without need of a run-off," write Brown Brothers Harriman currency strategists in a note to clients this morning. "The center-left (Renzi) can make a fight of it, trailing 36% to 37.9%. The 5-Star Movement is polling just shy of 21%." MARKET COMMENTARY "The last time the Nikkei traded below 14,000, back in September, USD/JPY was below 97, and the correlation between equities and USD/JPY is good enough to make that a potential target as old, stale yen shorts are squeezed out by the current equity and emerging-market turmoil. Emerging-market currencies and developed-market equity indices have been the biggest beneficiaries of super-easy Fed policy, and after a long period where EM FX bore the brunt of the change in the tide of Fed policy, equity markets are now reacting. Are they going to play catch-up?" —Kit Juckes, a global strategist at Société Générale FREE AppDownload
BoeingWARSAW (Reuters) - A computer malfunction on a Boeing &lt;BA.N&gt; 787 Dreamliner forced LOT &lt;LOT.UL&gt; to call off a transatlantic flight from Warsaw late on Monday and switch the passengers onto another jet instead, the Polish airline said. The glitch, the latest in a series of operational problems that have dogged the Dreamliner, caused the passengers' departure for Toronto, Canada, to be delayed by a few hours. "We had to restart the on-board computer just before take-off," broadcaster TVN24 quoted a LOT spokeswoman as saying. "Since such a restart and a consequent check-up of all systems takes a few hours (...) we changed the plane." LOT is due to receive about $30 million in compensation from Boeing for earlier faults that grounded its Dreamliner jets. The Dreamliner was supposed to be a game-changer for the aviation industry as its lighter body and electrical systems cut fuel consumption by 20 percent and reduced maintenance. But it has been beset by problems including a battery fire that grounded all 787s in service for three months last year and forced Boeing to re-design the powerful lithium-ion battery and enclose it in a tough new steel containment box. Other issues on the Dreamliner still facing Boeing include the reliability of flight controls, particularly for the wing spoilers, brakes and electrical power components. Last month, Boeing said the Dreamliner's reliability rate is now around 98 percent, meaning two out of every 100 flights are delayed for mechanical problems - up from 97 percent in October but still short of the firm's target. (This story was corrected to fix day of week in first paragraph, removes reference to flight being aborted in headline and first paragraph) (Reporting by Adrian Krajewski; Editing by Jeremy Gaunt) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidFormer CEO of Dow Jones, Lex Fenwick speaks during an interview in his New York offices July 20, 2012. NEW YORK (Reuters) - Lex Fenwick's surprise exit from Dow Jones came after some banks and other financial clients balked at the former chief executive's ambitious new product, DJX, which sent sales tumbling, according to people familiar with the matter. Several sources said institutional sales have dropped significantly since the April 2013 launch of DJX, a single Web-based platform that bundles together Dow Jones Newswires, Factiva, the Wall Street Journal and other Dow Jones products for institutional customers. DJX's rigid pricing structure left little room for negotiation, and alienated some retail brokerages, banks and other financial institutions that prefer to cherry pick products and bargain on price, said the sources, who include Dow Jones customers. They did not want to be identified because they were not authorized to speak publicly about the company. Dow Jones' institutional revenue fell by $11 million in the three months ended September 30, according to the fiscal first quarter results of parent News Corp, which did not provide the total figure. Figures for the December quarter have not been disclosed ahead of News Corp's results report on Thursday. A spokeswoman for News Corp declined to comment on Fenwick or the sales performance of DJX, which is still in beta. Fenwick did not respond to emailed requests for comment. When Fenwick's departure was announced on January 21, News Corp CEO Robert Thomson said in a statement that the company was reviewing its institutional strategy and planning improvements to DJX. News Corp did not give a reason for why Fenwick was leaving less than two years after joining, and it is not clear if DJX's performance was the key issue. "We're identifying how best to improve DJX, including making the product more flexible in order to better serve customers," said Ashley Huston, a spokeswoman for News Corp. "We'll have more specific details on this, including product announcements, in the very near future." Some analysts said Fenwick's departure was a signal to investors to brace for weak quarterly numbers from Dow Jones when News Corp reports results on February 6. Since News Corp split off its more lucrative entertainment and cable properties into 21st Century Fox Inc last year, Dow Jones is among the most important profit generators for the global publishing company. "The reaction to one-product-and-one-price strategy was largely negative," said Ken Doctor, an analyst at Outsell Research. Still, Doctor noted that Fenwick should get credit for tightening a pricing structure that was too loose, as well as raising subscription prices at The Wall Street Journal, which has historically cost less than the New York Times. The Journal's circulation revenue rose by $9 million in the September quarter, according to News Corp, which did not give the total circulation revenue. Dow Jones contributes about 27 percent of News Corp's earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA), according to Evercore Research estimates. Evercore forecasts News Corp will report a 6 percent decline in total revenue to $2.18 billion for the December quarter. Total revenue had fallen a steeper-than-expected 3 percent in the September quarter. Shares of News Corp have fallen about 7 percent since news of Fenwick's departure, roughly in line with the broader market. Fenwick, a 25-year veteran of Bloomberg LP, was appointed Dow Jones CEO in February 2012 and assigned with fixing the troubled institutional part of Dow Jones' business that was losing market share to competitors such as Bloomberg and Thomson Reuters Corp. His overhaul came at a difficult time in the marketplace, with banks under pressure to cut costs. Other financial information providers struggled as well. For instance, cancellations of Thomson Reuters' terminals had outpaced new sales in recent years, and only started to turn around in the third quarter of 2013. Sales growth at Bloomberg has also slowed over the past two years but has picked up in recent months. When Fenwick was CEO of Bloomberg from 2001 to 2008, he was praised for doubling revenue to $6 billion, though he was also criticized for being abrasive and mercurial. (http://r.reuters.com/men56v) After joining Dow Jones, Fenwick brought over some Bloomberg executives and adopted its one-size-fits-all product and pricing strategy. But that strategy angered some Dow Jones' clients. "It was a very risky move trying to take a bunch of well-established products that are not growing that rapidly with established customer bases and merge them into one platform in a market that is not growing," Evercore Research analyst Doug Arthur said. DJX costs $249 per month but could go up to $399 per month depending on how much a subscriber uses Factiva, said an investment banker familiar with the pricing. The banker said that was more than two-and-a-half times what the firm previously paid for Factiva alone. Another source familiar with Dow Jones said that before DJX, clients paid anywhere between $15 and $200 per person per month for Dow Jones Newswires. Given that wide range, it made sense for Fenwick to try to bring all the products on to one platform and standardize pricing, the source said. Dow Jones' interim CEO, William Lewis, said in a staff memo that it was a "clear priority" to review the company's institutional strategy. "We have created a DJX task force with cross-company representation in order to carve out next steps. This team has been working hard with input from many people. We look forward to sharing the outcome with you shortly and to working more closely with our institutional customers," Lewis said in the memo. (Reporting by Jennifer Saba in New York; Editing by Tiffany Wu and Grant McCool)   FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FlickrTarget data breach sparks debate between banks and retailers as Congress examines issue WASHINGTON (AP) — Banks and big retailers are locked in a debate over the breach of consumer data that gripped Target Corp. during the holiday season. At issue: Which industry bears more responsibility for protecting consumers' personal information? The retailers' argument: Banks must upgrade the security technology for the credit and debit cards they issue. The banks' counterargument: Newer electronic-chip technology wouldn't have prevented the Target breach. And retailers must tighten their own security systems for processing card payments. The finger-pointing is coming from two industries with considerable lobbying might. Their trade groups have been bombarding lawmakers with letters arguing why the other industry must do more — and spend more — to protect consumers. "Nearly every retailer security breach in recent memory has revealed some violation of industry security agreements," the Independent Community Bankers argued last month. "In some cases, retailers haven't even had technology in place to alert them to the breach intrusion, and third parties like banks have had to notify the retailers that their information has been compromised." The National Retail Federation has fired back: Retailers must accept "fraud-prone cards" issued by banks that are attractive to thieves, the federation's general counsel testified at a Senate subcommittee hearing Monday. "Unlike the rest of the world, the U.S. cards still use a signature and magnetic stripe for authentication." Their antagonism aside, the two sides agree on one point: That Congress should create a national standard for notifying consumers of any data breaches. A uniform standard would replace the current hodgepodge of state guidelines. In the middle are American consumers, many of whom say they're alarmed about the safety of their personal information since the Target breach. In an Associated Press-GfK poll conducted Jan. 17-21, nearly half of those surveyed said they've become extremely concerned about the vulnerability of their personal data when shopping in stores since the incident. This week, Congress is examining data security breaches and what to do about them. Four committees have scheduled hearings. At a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing Tuesday, the head of the Federal Trade Commission and officials from the Secret Service and the Justice Department are set to testify. So are executives of Target and luxury retailer Neiman Marcus. An estimated 40 million credit and debit card accounts were affected by the Target breach, which occurred between Nov. 27 and Dec. 15. Stolen were customers' names, credit and debit card numbers, card expiration dates, debit-card personal identification numbers and the embedded codes on the cards' magnetic strips. Also stolen was non-card personal information — names, phone numbers and email and mailing addresses — for up to 70 million Target customers who could have shopped before or after the Nov. 27-Dec. 15 period. The Target theft could prove to be the biggest data breach on record for a U.S. retailer. Minneapolis-based Target, the No. 2 U.S. discounter, has acknowledged that news of the breach has scared some shoppers away. The company last month cut its earnings outlook for its fourth quarter, which covers the crucial holiday season. It warned that sales would be down for the period. Still unknown is how the malicious software that was used to carry out the theft got into Target's computer system and how the hackers stole credentials from a Target vendor to enter the system. The identity of the vendor isn't known, either. The Secret Service has been investigating, and Attorney General Eric Holder has said the Justice Department is conducting a criminal probe to find those responsible. Sen. Mark Warner, D-Va., who leads the Senate Banking subcommittee, told the industry officials that "the only way this is going to work to protect consumers and give them the confidence they need is for the banking industry, the retail industry ... to actually collaborate together." Retailers are trying to shore up consumers' confidence by upgrading and testing their systems for accepting payments. But their trade association says the billions that merchants are spending won't prevent breaches unless the banks adopt more secure card technology. The banks plan to put digital chips for storing account information on debit and credit cards by the fall of 2015. Compared with the current magnetic strips, it's a system that typically makes data theft harder and is common in other countries. This would be a step forward but hardly a guarantee against cyber attacks, the banks caution. Retailers want the chips, but they also want each debit or credit card transaction to require a PIN instead of a signature. Experts say it's harder for criminals to steal PINs than to forge signatures. The magnetic strips use the same technology as cassette tapes to store account information and are easy to copy. By contrast, a digital chip generates a unique code each time it's used. Criminals can steal and sell data from cards with chips, but they can't create fraudulent cards. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr/KmeronSatya NadellaSEATTLE (Reuters) - As Microsoft Corp prepares to unveil insider Satya Nadella as its new chief executive, investors and analysts are weighing how effective the 22-year veteran will be in re-igniting the company's mobile ambitions and satisfying Wall Street's hunger for cash. The world's biggest software firm faces a slow erosion of its PC-centric Windows and Office franchises and needs to somehow challenge Apple Inc and Google Inc in the new realm of mobile computing. At the same time, some investors are campaigning for retrenchment and a bigger cut of the company's massive cash pile. Most agree that Nadella's background in creating Microsoft's Internet-based - or 'cloud' - computing services makes him a safe pair of hands to take the company forward, but there remains a question over his ability to make Microsoft a hit with consumers, or with impatient shareholders. "He is the right person to drive safe, right down the middle of the fairway, and continue Microsoft's strengths," said Rajeev Chand, managing director and head of research at tech investment bank Rutberg &amp; Co. "What we don't know is will Nadella help with the consumer revival, or with the mobile revival. Mobile is an open hole in his background." Microsoft's problem is stark. More than 90 percent of PCs run Windows, but only 4 percent of smartphones do and an even smaller slice of tablets. The company is still the undisputed king of workplace computing, but it is finding it hard to kindle the affections of consumers at home and on the move. Its Surface devices had some success over the holiday shopping season, but its phones are showing signs of losing momentum. "I would advise him (Nadella) to take a fresh look at mobile, or bring in some talent who really understands the space," said David Smith, an analyst at tech research firm Gartner. Last July, CEO Steve Ballmer outlined Microsoft's new devices and services business model that is intended to marry cloud services with nifty gadgets that can challenge Android phones and Apple's iPad. He backed that up with the $7.2 billion purchase of handset maker Nokia, set to close this quarter. But that move did not play well on Wall Street and now Microsoft finds itself under pressure from critical investors to give up the hardware business and concentrate instead on getting its software onto as many devices as possible, including the iPad. "Microsoft has to be present on every device. They can't be captive to Windows or Windows Phone," said Ted Schadler, an analyst at tech research firm Forrester. "When you look at the applications that are on the rise to support mobile, it is not Microsoft with Word, it's Dropbox or Evernote. It's really about being everywhere." One analyst calculated that Microsoft is losing $2.5 billion a year by keeping a full, native version of its Office suite unavailable for iPad users in the hope that its Surface tablets will become a hit with businesses, but there's no sign of that happening. "They have to port Office to iPad, they have to do it," said Schadler. "That's an important, immediate decision that Satya's going to have to drive." Aside from strategy quandaries, Nadella has to wrestle with the challenges of managing an enormous corporation and dealing directly with big investors, something he has had no real experience of as a unit head at Microsoft. ValueAct Capital, which led a shareholder revolt last year that culminated in the retirement of Ballmer, has been pushing for the company to abandon its ambitions to be a consumer hardware maker, refocus on its strengths with business applications and return more of the rewards from those steady, high-margin businesses to shareholders. "The fact is that with mature companies, shareholder value is more driven by capital allocation than by new products," said one Top 30 investor in Microsoft, who asked not be named as they were not authorized to speak publicly. "A repurchase would be great." That effectively means refocusing on Office and Windows and distributing more of Microsoft's $84 billion in cash and short-term investments, although most of that is held overseas. In September, Microsoft raised its dividend 22 percent and renewed its $40 billion share buyback program, but Wall Street is still hungry for more. "Satya's never run a P&amp;L (profit and loss statement) as big as Microsoft, so this is a bit of an unproven step up," said Schadler. "Dealing in the public markets is a big new challenge for him, so he's got a lot learning to do and will require coaching and this is where the board of directors intersects." It is expected that co-founder Bill Gates will relinquish the chairman position, to advise Nadella on technology and allow another board member to take on the task of dealing with investor relations, an idea that has broadly been welcomed by investors. "More of Bill Gates is a good thing for Microsoft," said Chand at Rutberg. (Additional reporting by Nadia Damouni in New York; Editing by Matt Driskill) FREE AppDownload
flickr/proimosZURICH (Reuters) - Switzerland's UBS &lt;UBSN.VX&gt; swung to a larger-than-expected fourth-quarter profit on Tuesday and announced higher dividends and bonuses, some reward for bucking trends to shrink its investment bank and reduce riskier activities. Shares were up 3 percent, but the Zurich-based group maintained a conservative outlook with a rout in emerging markets unnerving wealthy clients at the core of its wealth management business. The violent swings may hit first-quarter net new money, revenue and interest margins, it said. UBS, calling the year "transformational", said net profit for the quarter stood at 917 million Swiss francs ($1.02 billion) after it booked a 470 million franc gain from deferring taxes. The result was nearly three times the 354 million francs average estimate of 16 analysts polled by Reuters and a turnaround from last year's 1.89 billion francs loss when it was fined for trying to rig global interest rates. UBS grew its bonus pool by 28 percent to 3.2 billion francs from 2012, when awards were cut after it had to pay out $1.5 billion to settle the interest rate allegations. The earnings represent a vindication of sorts for UBS's decision to shrink its investment bank and largely withdraw from riskier activities such as bond trading, where falling prices have stung rivals such as Goldman Sachs &lt;GS.N&gt;, Citigroup &lt;C.N&gt; and Deutsche Bank &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt;. But analysts homed in on the subdued outlook for UBS's private bank, which accounts for over half of revenues. "All in, this is a mixed set of results. On the positive side, there is a substantial "beat" on capital," Goldman Sachs' analysts said in a note. "On the negative side, the all-important trends in the private bank were muted - flat margin, and in-line net new money." Profits from UBS's private bank rose 18 percent, but spending crept higher, in part due to bigger bonuses, and margins were flat. The unit won 5.8 billion francs in new funds from clients, much of it from Asia and from the very rich, or those with more than $50 million to bank. UBS's revamped investment bank swung to a 297 million franc pre-tax profit in the quarter, up 18 percent from the quarter before, as a surge in stock markets bolstered equity trading and advisory fees. UBS shares, which had fallen around 9 percent since mid-January, were the top performing bank stock in Europe, rising over 3 percent compared with a flat European index &lt;.SX7P&gt;. In a boost for UBS's capital position, Switzerland's financial regulator agreed to cut the additional amount of reserves the bank needs to hold against litigation, compliance and other operational risks to 22.5 billion francs from 28 billion francs three months ago. In slides released alongside its quarterly report, the Swiss bank said it expected elevated charges for litigation, regulatory and similar matters in 2014. UBS has a 1.7 billion franc war-chest to deal with legal tangles. UBS is one of a number of banks cooperating with a global investigation in to possible manipulation in the $5.3 trillion-a-day foreign exchange market. It said on Tuesday several class action lawsuits relating to the probe had been filed against it and other banks. Regulatory authorities are looking at whether traders at some of the world's biggest banks colluded to manipulate benchmark foreign-exchange rates used to set the value of trillions of dollars of investments. UBS said the 2013 earnings will allow it to pay shareholders 0.25 Swiss francs a share for the year, two-thirds more than in 2012. UBS repeated a pledge to pay out more than 50 percent of profits once its common equity Tier 1 ratio, a key measure of financial strength, hits 13 percent. It rose to 12.8 percent in the fourth quarter. UBS's 2013 dividend represents a 30 percent payout ratio. ($1 = 0.9027 Swiss francs) (Reporting By Katharina Bart, editing by Carmel Crimmins and Elizabeth Piper) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Severino Silva/Agencia O DiaA worker inspects the Christ the Redeemer statue which was damaged during lightning storms in Rio de Janeiro January 21, 2014.LONDON (Reuters) - European banks have loaned in excess of $3 trillion to emerging markets, more than four times U.S. lenders and putting them at greater risk if financial market turmoil in countries such as Turkey, Brazil, India and South Africa intensifies. The risk is most acute for six European banks - BBVA, Erste Bank, HSBC, Santander, Standard Chartered, and UniCredit - according to analysts. But the exposure could be a headache for the industry as a whole, just as it faces a rigorous health-check by the European Central Bank, aiming to expose weak points and restore investor confidence in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. "We think EM (emerging markets) shocks are a real concern for 2014," said Matt Spick, analyst at Deutsche Bank. "When currency (volatility) combines with revenue slowdowns and rising bad debts, we see compounding threats to the exposed banks." The Deutsche Bank analysts said the six most exposed European banks - which they did not name - had more than $1.7 trillion of exposure to developing markets. In recent weeks, emerging market currencies have come under fire as China's growth slows and the U.S. Federal Reserve winds down its stimulus program, with investors selling developing market assets in anticipation of higher U.S. interest rates. In a bid to protect currencies, interest rates have been hiked in Turkey and elsewhere, but investors remain nervy, especially around the so-called "Fragile Five" economies of Turkey, Brazil, India, Indonesia and South Africa. An emerging markets crisis could hit banks in a variety of ways - a collapse in local currency can hurt reported earnings or capital held in the country; loan losses can jump as interest rates rise; or income from capital markets activity or private banking can fall. European banks' exposure varies from country to country. BBVA &lt;BBVA.MC&gt; and UniCredit &lt;CRDI.MI&gt; have big exposure to Turkey, Santander &lt;SAN.MC&gt; is most exposed to Brazil, while Standard Chartered &lt;STAN.L&gt; and HSBC &lt;HSBA.L&gt; would be hurt by problems in India and Indonesia. Barclays &lt;BARC.L&gt;, meantime, would be most exposed to South African problems, analysts said. However, they said the impact of apparently individual problems, such as inflation in Venezuela or lower growth in India, could quickly spread into wider concern among investors, and had already contributed to a 7 percent drop by Europe's bank index &lt;.SX7P&gt; in the last two weeks. The biggest risk is that a jump in interest rates sparks defaults on loans, analysts added. Often a credit shock follows or replaces a currency shock, as happened in Argentina in 1999-2002. Europe's banks have cut their overseas loans since the financial crisis and substantially increased the amount of capital they hold, meaning they have a better cushion to absorb losses than in the past. But they still have about 12 percent of their assets in emerging markets, and about a quarter of their earnings come from the region as often the businesses there are "unusually profitable", Deutsche Bank's Spick said. European banks had $3.4 trillion of loans to developing countries at the end of September, according to data from the Bank for International Settlements. British banks had a $518 billion exposure to the Asia-Pacific region, Spanish banks had $475 billion of loans to Latin America, and banks in France and Italy each had $200 billion of exposure to developing economies in Europe. Among the most exposed banks, Standard Chartered makes more than 90 percent of its earnings from Asia, Africa and the Middle East, and warned in December that its 10-year record of earnings growth would likely end. BBVA had 41 billion euros ($55 billion) of exposure to Mexico - which last year made up 80 percent of group profits - and 52 billion euros of loans to South America. Santander had 132 billion euros of loans to Latin America at the end of last year, half of which were in Brazil.Brazil contributed 23 percent of group earnings last year, and the rest of Latin American contributed another 24 percent. Analysts said emerging market turmoil could also have a broader, indirect impact on revenues in investment banking and wealth management. "A significant increase in volatility in EM bonds and FX may result in volumes drying up and hence a potential for a material slowdown in EM fixed income revenues," said JPMorgan analyst Kian Abouhossein. He estimated the investment banks of HSBC and Standard Chartered each generated $2.1-2.2 billion from emerging markets, while Credit Suisse &lt;CSGN.VX&gt; and Deutsche Bank &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt; made about $1.1 billion each. (Additional reporting by Sarah White in Madrid; Editing by Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work at Bloomberg terminals on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, May 13, 2013.It's a busy week for the market and economic data, but today will be relatively quiet. Still there are two notable events: Via Calculated Risk: • At 10:00 AM ET, Manufacturers' Shipments, Inventories and Orders (Factory Orders) for December. The consensus is for a 1.8% decrease in December orders.• Also at 10:00 AM, the Congressional Budget Office will release its annual Budget and Economic Outlook. The report will include updated economic and budget projections spanning the period from 2014 to 2024. FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON (AP) — From Turkey to South Africa to Argentina, emerging markets are being slammed by rising inflation, economic mismanagement and political turmoil. Overhanging it all is a nerve-jangling unknown: Whether developing countries as a group can withstand the end of the extraordinary easy-money policies that central banks have offered up for five years. The short answer: A tentative yes. Many economists say they are optimistic that the troubles in emerging markets won't infect the global economy as a whole. They note that the biggest threats in the developing world are confined to modest-size economies — South Africa, Turkey, Argentina — that seem unlikely to do much damage beyond their borders. For one thing, emerging economies as a group are far healthier than they were the last time they were severely tested — during the Asian financial crisis of the late 1990s. Many have built up foreign currency reserves they can use to buy their own currency and prop up its value. When the Asian financial crisis hit in 1997, emerging markets' foreign reserves were equal to 9.9 of their economic output. Many couldn't defend their currencies. By last year, the percentage had risen to nearly 30 percent, according to the Institute of International Finance. And the world's richest economies — the United States and Europe — appear to be strengthening. As they do, they'll be more likely to buy goods from developing countries, thereby cushioning the damage. "Some emerging markets have been hit particularly hard," economists at BNP Paribas wrote in a report last week. "However, it has only been some, so this is not a widespread emerging-market crisis." The International Monetary Fund expects the global economy to grow 3.7 percent this year, up from 3 percent in 2013. The IMF forecasts that developing economies as a whole will also grow faster in 2014 — 5.1 percent, up from 4.7 percent in 2013. Still, the turmoil in emerging markets this year has shaken global investors. So far this year, Argentina's peso has dropped 19 percent, South Africa's rand 7 percent and Turkey's lira 6 percent. In response, the Argentine, Turkish and South African central banks have raised interest rates to try to curb inflation and support their free-falling currencies. The resulting turbulence has rattled investors in the United States, too: Since peaking Dec. 31, the Dow Jones industrial average has tumbled 7 percent. So why have emerging market troubles spooked investors in the United States and Europe? In short, fear of the unknown. After going to extraordinary lengths to pump money into the financial system after a crisis hit in 2008, the Federal Reserve is scaling back. The Fed's bond buying had pushed long-term U.S. rates down and sent investors into emerging markets in search of higher returns. Now that U.S. rates may be poised to rise, the money is flowing back out, pressuring developing countries' currencies and financial markets. "Central banks have provided unprecedented liquidity to the markets," says Craig Alexander, chief economist with TD Bank Financial Group in Toronto. "What happens when that liquidity starts to get withdrawn? The actual answer is, we don't know." Economists have warned that emerging markets must do more to wean themselves from their dependence on easy money — by improving roads and other infrastructure, reducing dependence on exports, encouraging more domestic spending, reforming their markets and opening up their economies to more foreign competition. Adding to the tension is trouble in China. The fast-growing Chinese economy is decelerating — bad news for developing countries such as South Africa and Indonesia that supply Chinese factories with raw materials. On Monday, global markets were shaken by a government manufacturing survey showing that Chinese factory output grew at a slower rate last month compared with December. A Jan. 23 HSBC report showed that Chinese manufacturing actually contracted in January. Individual emerging market countries are confronting specific problems: —SOUTH AFRICA The biggest economy in Africa is beset with troubles. China's slowdown is likely to pinch demand for South African coal and other commodities. Inflation is near a high 6 percent. And investors have been dumping South African assets, causing the currency, the rand, to plummet. In response, the South African central bank last week raised rates for the first time in six years. But that carries a risk: Higher rates could damage a fragile economy, warns Mohammed Nalla, head of strategic research at Nedbank Capital near Johannesburg: "A hike in rates will likely exacerbate the plight of the poor and middle class and accelerate the deterioration in domestic growth," Nalla says. The country is coping with a strike by tens of thousands of platinum miners that threatens political stability. —ARGENTINA Argentina suffers from a shortage of dollars and one of the world's highest inflation rates — 25 percent to 30 percent, well ahead of the official government numbers. Argentina's economy this year is expected to expand no more than 1.5 percent, mainly because of lower commodity prices and waning demand from China for its agricultural goods. The government's policy of nationalizing private firms has also spooked investors. The peso has plummeted, and the country is running low on reserves to defend it. Like many, Carlos Partcha, an 80-year-old retired journalist, is buying U.S. dollars and stashing them under his mattress, as he's done for more than a decade. "We don't trust anything anymore — not even the banking institutions," Partcha said. —TURKEY The Turkish central bank last week raised rates to fight inflation and reverse a freefall in the Turkish currency, the lira. But a report Monday showing that inflation was running at nearly a 7.5 percent annual rate in January sent the lira tumbling again. The currency's troubles and political tension arising from a corruption scandal have paralyzed the economy. "Business activity has slowed down because of the unease and uncertainty," says Ozlem Derici, an economist at Deniz Invest. "Everyone is in a wait-and-see mood." Jorge Mariscal, chief investment officer for emerging markets at UBS, says Turkey is "the one that worries me most right now. They are very vulnerable." Turkey's foreign reserves aren't adequate to stop the lira's free-fall. Still, Mariscal remains optimistic: "Turkey has seen this movie before, and they know what to do. And what they need to do is to raise interest rates pretty aggressively. If you pay people enough to stay in liras, then you attract foreign capital." Overall, Mariscal says, investors appear worried about the repeat of the Asian financial crisis or similar emerging-market panics in Mexico in 1995 and Russia in 1998. "I think we're far from that," he says, noting that "large emerging markets have boosted their defenses quite a bit in the last five years. " ____ Rothwell reported from New York. AP Writer Suzan Fraser in Ankara, Turkey, contributed to this report. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Pretty astounding chart from the UK construction PMI. Really says it all about how how the UK construction sector is. Markit FREE AppDownload
One interesting sidenote to the market action right now. Despite the hard selling in Asia, and the decline in Europe, emerging market currencies are stronger on the day. Here's a one day look at USDTRY. XE Also worth noting that US futures are still pointing to a higher open. So there are pockets of strength. FREE AppDownload
YouTube/CNBCDan GreenhausBTIG strategist Dan Greenhaus (@danBTIG) has some great thoughts on the selloff, and whether one might consider buying into it: In recent times, we felt comfortable leaning into this decline, arguing that idiosyncratic issues in Turkey, Argentina and/or the Ukraine were ultimately unlikely to augur poorly for U.S. equities for more than a few sessions. However, Japanese stocks are now down 13% including the decline occurring as you read this, European equities are down by 6.4% and U.S. equities are off by 5.7%. In the U.S., slowing economic data in December and January have raised concerns that (either) the Fed is reducing its accommodative policy at the wrong time or the reduction is leading to said weakness. In either case, global economic indicators are slowing and here in the U.S., investors are growing concerned there is more than weather plaguing the economy. Nonetheless, the equity decline and the price action action do not feel panicky. It is worrisome that retail related stocks (including autos) are among the worst hit this year (although some car companies have blamed the weather); of the fourteen names most below their 2014 high, ten are from the discretionary sector (led by BBY, GME, MAT and IGT). Further, we’re somewhat confident part of the decline is related to the change in Fed leadership and the uncertainty it may breed. We are sticking with our larger view though that with earnings season doing well, investors will likely find current discounts attractive. FREE AppDownload
johntrathome via www.flickr.com creative commons And we're back! Good morning folks, and welcome to what's already another very interesting day in world markets. Japan got creamed again yesterday, with the Nikkei falling over 4%. Year to date, the formerly red-hot index is off 14%! Hong Kong fell nearly 3%, and now it has officially entered "correction" territory. European markets are down across the board.  These moves follow an ugly day in the US yesterday, which saw the Dow tumble over 300 months, as the index hit a 3-month low. Suddenly a world that seemed quite calm economically is having issues pop up all over the place. China is slowing. The US data has been so-so. There's pressure on the Bank of England to tighten. Emerging markets are getting clobbered. People are losing confidence in Abenomics.  Of course, when markets decline, people always make up stories about why. FREE AppDownload
