AP ImagesPremier Li KeqiangBEIJING (Reuters) - China's leadership and central bank are ready to cut interest rates again and also loosen lending restrictions, concerned that falling prices could trigger a surge in debt defaults, business failures and job losses, said sources involved in policy-making. Friday's surprise cut in rates, the first in more than two years, reflects a change of course by Beijing and the central bank, which had persisted with modest stimulus measures before finally deciding last week that a bold monetary policy step was required to stabilize the world's second-largest economy. Economic growth has slowed to 7.3 percent in the third quarter and policymakers feared it was on the verge of dipping below 7 percent - a rate not seen since the global financial crisis. Producer prices, charged at the factory gate, have been falling for almost three years, piling pressure on manufacturers, and consumer inflation is also weak. "Top leaders have changed their views," said a senior economist at a government think-tank involved in internal policy discussions. The economist, who declined to be named, said the People's Bank of China had shifted its focus toward broad-based stimulus and were open to more rate cuts as well as a cut to the banking industry's reserve requirement ratio (RRR), which effectively restricts the amount of capital available to fund loans. China cut the RRR for some banks this year but has not announced a banking-wide reduction in the ratio since May 2012. "Further interest rate cuts should be in the pipeline as we have entered into a rate-cut cycle and RRR cuts are also likely," the think-tank's economist said. Friday's move, which cut one-year benchmark lending rates by 40 basis points to 5.6 percent, also arose from concerns that local governments are struggling to manage high debt burdens amidst reforms to their funding arrangements, the sources said. Top leaders had been resisting a rate cut, fearing it could fuel debt and property bubbles and dent their reformist credentials, but were eventually swayed by signs of deteriorating growth as the property sector cooled. Until then, they had persisted with targeted policy steps, such as cuts in reserve ratios for selected banks and liquidity injections into the banking system. But these failed to bring down borrowing costs for the corporate sector. "Increasing liquidity by the central bank has failed to lower borrowing costs for the real economy," said a former central bank researcher who now works for the government. "Employment still holds up, but corporate profits have been squeezed as producer price deflation bites, and it's unreasonable for banks to have hefty profits."  Many Chinese economists had been calling for bolder policy actions, as recent data showed the economy losing more steam in the fourth quarter and consumer price inflation falling. Full-year growth is on track to undershoot the government’s 7.5 percent target and mark the weakest expansion in 24 years. "GDP growth is near 7 percent which is at a dangerous level given it could still go even lower due to structural reforms," said Li Xunlei, chief economist at Haitong Securities. "The rate cut helped boost confidence in next year's growth outlook," said Li, who was among economists who discussed policy issues with Premier Li Keqiang at a recent cabinet session. Government think-tanks, which make policy proposals, have urged Beijing to cut its economic growth target next year, probably to around 7 percent, from around 7.5 percent this year. The leadership is due to map out economic and reform plans for 2015 at a work conference next month, including economic targets which will be unveiled in parliament next March. China's leaders also worried that a sharp economic slowdown could hurt employment and undermine public support for reforms. "Employment still holds up now, but it will definitely be affected if growth slows further," said Yin Zhongli, senior economist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, a top government think-tank. The central bank does not have the final word on adjusting interest rates or the value of the yuan. The basic course of monetary and currency policy is set by the State Council, China's cabinet, or by the Communist Party's ruling Politburo. Beijing wants to push some painful reforms next year, including fiscal reforms to deal with a mountain of local government debt, and the risk of pushing local governments into defaults could be offset by lower interest rates. Some policy insiders said the rate cut was also influenced by talks at this month's summit of the G20 group of nations, which pledged to boost flagging global growth. China, which will host the G20 summit in 2016, is keen to maintain its influence as a major driver of global growth. "China is keen to play a bigger role within G20 and it needs to maintain relatively fast economic growth," said Zhao Xijun, an influential economist at Renmin University. (Editing by Mark Bendeich) FREE AppDownload
In the past five days, 23 powerful Brazilians have been arrested, with even more warrants still outstanding. The country's stock market has become a whipsaw, and its currency, the real, has hit a nine-year low. All of this is due to a far-reaching corruption scandal at one massive company, Petrobras. In the last month the company's stock has fallen by 35%. Petrobras is a $58.9 billion oil and gas company, of which the Brazilian government controls 54%. Five years ago, when the company was growing at a strong clip, it became almost iconic — a fixture in images of Brazil's new self. Think smiling pictures of former and well-loved President Luis Inacio Lula da Silva in a hard hat and work clothes. But in the last few years Brazil's economy has slowed, its star has diminished, and Petrobras itself is, in part, to blame. Now, amid this corruption scandal, it has become a different kind of symbol for the country, a symbol of government corruption, and whether or not the country has developed a system with the capability to clean it up. President Dilma Rousseff said that the Petrobras scandal may have the ability to "change Brazil forever." "It is a symbolic case for Brazil," she said. "It is the first time we have had a concrete investigation into corruption in Brazil, in either the public or private sectors." She would know; she's being investigated herself. There are two very serious issues with Petrobras — corruption and mismanagement. Corruption first. Authorities are calling their investigation into the company "Operation Car Wash," and it has reached the highest levels of the Brazilian government. President Rousseff's regime is accused of shaving 3% off the company's contracts in kickbacks to finance her election campaign. In October there were reports that she admitted that there was a "deviation of public money," though she later denied making those comments. In March a Petrobras former refining head, Paulo Proberto Costa, was arrested for taking $400 million from the company to make political donations. There's also an investigation into Petrobras' $1.25 billion purchase of an oil refinery in Texas in 2006. The whole thing was a disaster and led to a $500 million write down. Authorities in Brazil, the Netherlands, and the US are also looking into $100 million in alleged kickbacks Petrobras gave to SBM Offshore NV, a Dutch company that makes ships that carry oil. And of course there are the most recent arrests and warrants issued. Many are for high-level executives at construction companies that allegedly gave or took kickbacks from corrupt Petrobras officials. Authorities raided 11 major offices, according to Bloomberg. That's a lot of people to take down. Especially for a country known for letting the rich do what they want — for a country that has never sent anyone to jail for a capital markets crime in its entire history. ReutersBrazil's former president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva (2nd L) holds the Brazilian flag with others during a demonstration supporting both the exploration of the oil in pre-salt layer on Brazil's offshore, as well as Brazil's Petrobras oil company, in Rio de Janeiro September 15, 2014. Last month in a no-media-allowed charity conference for Wall Street's most brilliant minds, The Robinhood Investor's Conference, short-seller Jim Chanos presented his short thesis for Petrobras. It tanked all of Brazil. In a post-presentation interview with Bloomberg TV he called Petrobras a "scheme, not a stock." Chanos was only talking about corruption in part. The other issue with Petrobras is with how the Brazilian government manages the company, or rather uses the company's cash to its advantage. "They [the Rousseff regime] were doing fiscal policy through the development bank and through Petrobras," economist Claudio Loser, founder of researcher Centennial Group, told Business Insider last month. "The company has been really suffering. Two years ago I would've said the company looked good." This is what it looks like now: Petrobras' debt has increased 81% to over $240 billion in the last two years. The government uses fuel controls as a kind of subsidy for the Brazilian people, and as a result there's less money for refining and the company misses production targets. You can imagine what that does to Petrobras' cash flow. ReutersBrazilian billionaire Eike Batista (L), CEO of EBX Group, greets Brazil's President Dilma Rousseff during a ceremony in celebration of the start of oil production of OGX, Batista's oil and gas company, at the Superport Industrial Complex of Acu in Sao Joao da Barra in Rio de Janeiro April 26, 2012. There are two things lurking in the background of this story. One is price and the other is man. The price, naturally, is the price of the oil that continues its slide. International prices are now getting closer to Brazil's domestic prices, but that's still not enough to make up for all of Petrobras' debt and costs. And raising oil and gas prices for the Brazilian people is an ugly option. Rousseff won the presidential election by only a hair, and protests over the summer were focused on the country's high cost of living due to inflation and corruption in the incumbent's regime. Right now, political will for difficult choices is hard to find. But the will to punish those who have historically been above Brazilian law is not. On Tuesday, one of the most closely watched trials in Brazil kicked off — the trial of former Brazilian billionaire Eike Batista. He is accused of stock manipulation and insider trading in an effort to save the massive empire of companies he built — an empire that took down Brazil's market when it crumbled. What happens to Batista may also happen to Petrobras. If either is punished, it's a sign of a new era in Brazil. If both are allowed to walk away from their corruption without a scratch, nothing will have changed. FREE AppDownload
IMDBStar Trek V: The Final FrontierAt one point during the month, the VIX, an index that measures the U.S. market’s implied volatility, surged to over 26 – nearly two times its average of 14 this year1. U.S. stocks ended the month as the clear winner returns-wise, but they also had some of the highest volatility of any region. Frontier markets stand in contrast. While stock prices declined –falling oil prices and a rising U.S. dollar hurt oil producers Nigeria and Kuwait – frontier markets overall moved less significantly than the  U.S. To illustrate my point, let’s look at two funds. While both U.S. and frontier markets saw higher volatility over the month, the iShares Core S&amp;P 500 ETF (IVV) ended with a standard deviation of 17.45% vs. 16.83% for the iShares MSCI Frontier Markets 100 ETF (FM).2 As this chart shows, IVV also experienced a greater change in volatility in October. Change in Volatility During October1BlackRock This result was not unexpected. Nor was the longer-term behavior of frontier markets: I’ve previously written about why we like frontier markets. This recent bout of volatility in the U.S., as well as our expectations for increased volatility going forward, only strengthens the case for being as diversified as possible, including making frontier markets a strategic slice of your portfolio. And with valuations more attractive, now may be a good entry point to capture the meaningful growth potential of these “pre-emerging” countries. How to get a seat at the frontier markets table Not all frontier market funds are created equal, and differences among funds are more pronounced because of the relative newness of the asset class. For investors considering the potential benefits of frontier markets, and willing to take on their related risks, iShares MSCI Frontier 100 ETF (FM) offers: 1.    Pure frontier markets exposure. While many other funds in the category blend both frontier and emerging markets exposure, FM is the only dedicated frontier markets ETF according to MSCI country classifications. 2.    Diversification. FM provides exposure to up to 20 countries, helping to mitigate the volatility associated with concentration risk. 3.     A bias towards liquidity. Its index is a subset of roughly 100 of the largest and most liquid stocks of its broader parent index. Individual stocks are selected using a special process that focuses on trading volume and shares available. We believe this level of scrutiny can be particularly important in underdeveloped markets where liquidity is key. 1 Bloomberg daily data from January 1, 2014 to October 31, 2014. 2Volatility measured by Bloomberg average 30 day rolling, from December 2010 to December 2013. 3 Source: MSCI monthly correlations from December 2010 to December 2013. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary CameronA technician inspects United States one dollar bills during production at the Bureau of Engraving and Printing in Washington.Do you have a dollar bill in your wallet right now? Chances are, the answer is yes. But did you know how much work went into creating that bill? It's likely more than you ever expected. Hundreds of hours of labor go into making a dollar bill, from the special process used to create the paper it's printed on, to the printing, analyzing, cutting, packaging, and shipping to banks. Each bill must be perfect, according to the US Department of Treasury's standards, and the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, which is tasked with creating all paper money, goes to great lengths to meet its specifications. Go behind the scenes at the BEP's Washington, DC facilities to see how dollars get made.
The S&amp;P 500 continues to close at new record highs as US stocks continue to be outperformers in the world markets. Deutsche Bank's Binky Chadha reminds us that earnings growth has been relatively strong in the US. Furthermore, investors have been willing to pay an increasing premium for those earnings, which is seen by the increasing price-earnings multiple. One important reason earnings per share growth has been strong in the US is that American corporations have been spending trillions of dollars buying back the outstanding shares of their companies. As you can see in this chart, when it comes to net buybacks — the difference between buybacks and issuance — in the last twelve months, no market in the world comes close to the level of buybacks seen in the US. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Jung Yeon-JeSouth Korea's vast dollar reserves allow the central bank to intervene in the currency market to curb any volatile swings in the won-dollar rateSeoul (AFP) - As Japan slips into recession, South Korea is keeping an increasingly wary eye on its export rival's free-falling currency, which is honing a lasting competitive edge over Korean products in a number of key markets. The massive fiscal stimulus and flood of easy money unleashed by "Abenomics" has sent the Japanese yen plunging to multi-year lows against a basket of major currencies. In the past two years, the yen has lost around 33 percent of its value against the US dollar and 35 percent against the Korean won -- a depreciation that has triggered public expressions of concern in Seoul from industrialists, politicians and monetary policy-setters.  A weaker yen makes Japanese exports cheaper, which impacts countries such as South Korea that are direct competitors in a number of key sectors. Bank of Korea (BOK) governor Lee Ju-Yeol promised earlier this month that it would not "sit idle" despite the limited tools it can deploy to counter the falling yen. At its monthly monetary meeting on November 18, the BOK kept its key interest rate unchanged at 2.0 percent, but Lee underlined the "worrisome situation" regarding the Japanese currency. If Japanese companies up the ante still further by slashing export prices, then South Korean companies in the auto, steel, machinery and shipbuilding sectors are "bound to suffer", Lee said. South Korea's vast dollar reserves allow the central bank to intervene in the currency market to curb any volatile swings in the won-dollar rate. But the won-yen exchange rate is calculated not by direct trade but by their relative value against the greenback, leaving the BOK little room to manoeuvre. The BOK can, in theory, sell the won heavily to weaken it against the dollar and eventually the yen, but that causes problems for businesses importing raw materials. "And a weak won will lead foreign investors to pull money out of the stock and bond markets, making them more unstable," said Shin Se-Don, economics professor at Seoul's Sookmyung University.  PRNewsFoto/Hyundai Motor America The advantage Japanese exports gain from the falling yen makes life particularly difficult for South Korean companies such as Hyundai, the world's fifth largest automaker. "The biggest risk for us now is eroding price competitiveness due to the weak yen," Hyundai's chief financial officer Lee Won-Hee said last month after the firm announced a 30 percent plunge in third-quarter net profit. For years, Hyundai Motor and its smaller affiliate Kia had eaten into the overseas market share of Japanese giants like Honda and Toyota. Between 2005 and 2012 they almost doubled their combined US market share to 8.7 percent, but that fell back to 8.1 percent last year. In October, the share had further fallen to 7.4 percent -- the lowest so far this year.  Japanese carmakers, meanwhile, have hammered home the advantage of the weaker yen by boosting sales incentives to new buyers in the United States. Lee Keun-Tae, an economist at LG Economic Research Institute, said many Japanese firms -- unconvinced by Tokyo's stimulus campaign -- were still holding off on any major cut to export prices. But he said the Bank of Japan's surprise announcement last month to further ramp up monetary easing may convert the sceptics.   "If these companies start slashing prices in earnest, it's going to be a nightmare for many Korean manufacturers," Lee said. For South Korean firms it is a double blow at a time when they are already facing increased competition from China. "Korean exporters are no match for Chinese firms in price competitiveness, and now they are being cornered by Japan, too," Lee said.  "So they're being sandwiched harder than ever." Wikimedia CommonsBusan,South Korea South Korean shipbuilders, who had been racing neck and neck with China to top the list of global orders, are also feeling the heat. In April, they were beaten into third place by their Japanese competitors for the first time in 15 months, according to data from the industry tracker Clarkson, which also had Japan ahead in June and September. The portfolios of South Korean and Japanese shipbuilders overlap significantly in the merchant ships and liquefied natural gas (LNG) carrier sector. According to the Korea International Trade Association, more than half of all South Korean exports are in direct competition with made-in-Japan goods. Concerns about the yen are not helped by the fact that South Korea-Japan diplomatic relations are currently at their lowest ebb for years, dogged by historical disputes that show no sign of waning. During the recent G20 summit, South Korean President Park Geun-Hye offered a thinly veiled critique of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's efforts to reinvigorate Japan's flagging economy. Monetary policies by advanced nations only in consideration of their own domestic condition could spark "negative spillover effects", Park said. "I could no longer see the situation go on like this so I was determined to speak out," she later told reporters. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Francois LenoirA worker displays a heart-shaped praline for Valentine's Day at a Wittamer chocolate boutique in Brussels.FactSet has released its report on the 50 largest hedge funds and their holdings during the third quarter. These funds increased their exposure to stocks by 3.8% as the market extended its 5-year old bull run. FactSet's John Butters noted that the most popular stocks to buy were in the in the information technology sector, followed by consumer discretionary and energy sectors. Shares of Shire PLC were the most bought in the third quarter, even as the biopharmaceutical company negotiated acquisition offers by Abbvie that eventually fell through.  The largest funds owned stocks with a combined market value worth $790 billion. Using FactSet's data, we've compiled a list of the 50 most widely held stocks and ranked them by the dollar value held by the funds. FREE AppDownload
 On Friday morning, China's central bank cut interest rates to keep money flowing through the country's slowing economy. The market rejoiced.  But the market is overreacting, acording to at least one top economist. The People's Bank of China announced that it cut the one-year deposit rate by 0.25 points, to 2.75%. What it really did, however, was make a suggestion. Commercial banks can still charge 3.3% for that one-year deposit rate if they choose — that's the upper limit on the rate and has been for some time.  And considering that Chinese banks are struggling under the load of the country's corporate debt, they'll want to charge that upper limit. In a note released after the announcement, Societe Generale's Wei Yao admitted that she didn't see the interest-rate cut coming, but also reiterated that it's not a "de facto rate cut." "I think the market is somewhat overreacting," she told Business Insider. "That kind of easing, in our view, will not be enough to stop growth deceleration, but it is enough to stop a hard landing." Even if a hard landing is prevented, that doesn't mean it won't be ugly on the way down. The PBOC is reacting to the fact that the country's economy is simply decelerating faster than it had anticipated. China's HSBC PMI Manufacturing fell to a six-month low of 50 in November. The market anticipated 50.2, and anything under 50 shows a contraction in manufacturing. Another recent ugly number came from Macau's gaming sector. Analysts at Wells Fargo estimate that gross gaming revenue could fall 18% to 21% in November. That kind of data begs for action, but China didn't really take any. "The [PBOC] message is, 'We're not doing a lot of easing, so we're pushing for reform at the same time,'" said Yao. "It's not as simple as 'We're easing.'" So for the time being, we'll continue seeing these head fakes and smaller liquidity injections to prop up Chinese banks. It's not enough, though. The only thing that will really change the situation in China is a large-scale restructuring of the corporate sector, according to Yao. Reform is the only answer. Even a true rate cut wouldn't help anymore. The problem, or temporary solution, depending on how you see it, is that the market doesn't view this announcement that way.  When a central bank announces it's cutting interest rates, it usually means action is being taken. That's what the market has understood for years. This jolt of good feelings is a normal reaction; it's just that the PBOC is not a normal central bank. It's a bank with a crisis on its hands. We can all relate.     FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersIndonesian youth walk past an Intel sign during Digital Imaging expo in Jakarta(Reuters) - Shares in microprocessor maker Intel Corp &lt;intc.o&gt; could rise more than 30 percent to $48 over the next two years, Barron's reported in its Nov. 24 edition. With shares recently at over $35, the stock is halfway to the five-year doubling Barron's said it predicted in June of 2013, but now is not the time, the weekly magazine advised. Barron's said that in two years' time, the 30 percent rise would put shares trading at around 16 times future earnings estimates, the same price to 2014 earnings ratio that it now trades at.   (Reporting by Caroline Humer; Editing by Marguerita Choy) FREE AppDownload
Amazon.comProfessional economists spend lots of time mulling over government stats on the economy. Popular indicators include the consumer price index and the nonfarm payrolls report. However, these official reports are always revised, sometimes by amounts so large we wonder why we pay attention to them at all. Fortunately, we live in an era where massive amounts of information flows freely. And some savvy economists have flagged some seriously unorthodox indicators that reveal the truth about what's really going on in the economy. Many of us are familiar with some of these indicators like the Big Mac Index and the lipstick indicator. However, there are even weirder indicators like Kenyan Coca-Cola revenues, alligator populations, cheap romance novel sales, and the intensity of military recruitment ads that are arguably sound in their economic revelations. Business Insider has compiled a list of the 54 most unusual ones. Take a look. Eric Platt, Matthew Boesler, and Steven Perlberg contributed to an earlier version of this article. FREE AppDownload
ReutersPresident of Brazil's Oil Company Petrobras Maria das Gracas Silva Foster attends a meeting of the supervision and control committee, discussing corruption allegations involving the purchase of a refinery in Pasadena, Texas, at the Lower House of Congress in Brasilia April 30, 2014.ON NOVEMBER 14th Brazilian police raided the offices of Petrobras, a vast state-controlled oil firm at the centre of a corruption scandal. Back in 2010 Petrobras was a symbol of Brazil's economic rise. It conducted the largest global equity raising on record, to pay for the development of fields off Brazil's coast. Now, bribes are the least of it. Despite an investment binge its production growth has been anaemic. Its returns on capital and its shares have slumped. Its balance-sheet is shot, former executives have been arrested and its accounts may be restated. Petrobras is today an exemplar of something else: the lousy performance of state-owned firms. Ronald Reagan said the nine most terrifying words in the English language were "I'm from the government and I'm here to help." For investors the scariest words may be, "I'm from a state-owned firm and I want your capital." Across the world, big, listed state-owned enterprises (SOEs) that were floated, or raised mountains of equity, between 2000 and 2010 have had a dismal time. The EconomistTheir share of global market capitalisation has shrunk from a peak of 22% in 2007 to 13% today. Measured by profits their decline is less stark, mainly because big Chinese banks continue to report inflated profits that do not accurately reflect their rotten books. Exclude them and SOEs' share of earnings has slumped, too (see chart). It will probably fall further. In Russia, Gazprom, which the Kremlin once predicted would be the first firm to be worth $1 trillion, has crumpled: it is worth $73 billion today. India's mismanaged state-owned banks command miserly valuations compared with their private peers. Since 2009 the Shenzhen stockmarket's index, which is dominated by private firms, has rocketed past that of its rival in Shanghai, which is mainly made up of state companies, notes Sanford C. Bernstein, an analysis firm. Once, investors swooned at the rise of China Mobile, a state-owned operator. Now they admire Xiaomi, a wily private handset-maker. Shares in Vale, a Brazilian miner in which public-sector pension funds have a big stake, have lagged those of its private-sector peers, BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto, by over 40% in the past three years. Overall, the SOEs among the world's top 500 firms have lost between 33% and 37% of their value in dollars since 2007, depending on how one treats firms that were unlisted at the start of the period. Global shares as a whole have risen by 5%. It was not meant to be like this. As the West slipped into a crisis in 2007-08, state capitalism supposedly took the business world by storm, particularly in the emerging world. It had two elements. Sovereign wealth funds (SWFs) gathered the excess savings that oil-rich and Asian countries accumulated, investing them overseas. And a new, hybrid kind of SOE was in vogue. When Europe and Latin America privatised firms in the 1980s and 1990s, they often went the whole hog, with the state selling out completely--think of British Gas or telecoms in Brazil. But in the 2000s private investors were invited to play only a subordinate role, with the state keeping a controlling stake and making enlightened decisions in the interests of all. Investors lapped it up: they forked out more than $500 billion in SOE equity raisings between 2000 and 2012. REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinRussia's Prime Minister Vladimir Putin (L) speaks after a document signing ceremony as Gazprom's Chief Executive Alexey Miller (C) and Deputy Prime Minister Igor Sechin (R) stand behind in Moscow, January 19, 2009.What went wrong? As trade surpluses and commodity prices have fallen, SWFs have accumulated cash at a slower rate and spent less on buying stakes in firms. In 2013 their investments were $50 billion, under half the level of 2008, reckons Bernardo Bortolotti of Bocconi University in Milan.  SOEs, meanwhile, have been through hell. Tumbling commodity prices have hurt energy and mining firms. Sanctions have clobbered Russian firms. Corruption scandals have erupted, and not just in Brazil. Jiang Jiemin, PetroChina's ex-boss, was arrested in 2013, for example. But at the root of the underperformance is what looks like a huge misallocation of capital by SOEs. Given licence by politicians, and with little need to pacify stroppy investors, their capital investment surged, accounting for over 30% of the global total by big listed firms. More than $2.5 trillion has been invested in telecoms networks, hydrocarbons fields and other projects by SOEs since 2007. Gazprom built an alpine ski resort for the winter Olympics. Etisalat, a telecoms firm in the United Arab Emirates, blew $800m on an operation in India whose licence was cancelled after an anti-graft inquiry. To counteract the global slowdown after 2007-08, state banks went on a lending binge in China, India, Russia, Brazil and Vietnam. The resulting bad debts are only now being recognised. As the balance-sheets of SOEs have grown faster than profits, return on equity has slumped from 16% in 2007 to 12% today, less than the 13% achieved by private firms. China's four biggest banks, with their inflated earnings, flatter this picture. Excluding them, SOEs' return on equity falls to 10%. Cash returns to investors are poor: SOEs' dividends and buy-backs are typically only 10-15% of the global total. Flabby and stingy, SOEs are now priced by investors at about their liquidation value. For governments and managers of SOEs the immediate task is firefighting. While SOES' aggregate balance-sheet is passable, some companies are too indebted. Vietnam has had one big SOE default, by a shipyard. Petrobras has net debt equivalent to four times its gross operating profit. Rosneft, a Russian oil firm, must refinance $21 billion of bonds before April. Its bond yields have risen sharply and it wants state aid. Many SOE banks in the emerging world need to be recapitalised. Next, investment levels and costs need to be cut, so as to lift returns on capital. There is little sign that this is happening yet. Natural-resources SOEs will probably be slower to react to lower commodity prices than their private-sector peers. All state firms find it hard to lay off people--the SOEs among the world's 500 most valuable firms employ 8m, and their workforce has risen by a fifth since 2007. Those in industries facing disruption from the web, particularly banking and telecoms, will probably need redundancy schemes. Darley Shen / Reuters In the longer term, managers need to rethink how firms are run. Interviewed by The Economist in April, Xi Guohua, the chairman of China Mobile, talked of introducing incentive-based pay, awarding staff shares and establishing stand-alone units with freedom to innovate. "The old organisation will restrict our development and stand in our way, and we are fully aware of the urgency of such changes," he said. China Mobile's efforts are part of a wider drive in China to make SOEs more efficient by deregulating prices and interest rates, introducing more private investors and increasing competition. Narendra Modi, India's newish prime minister, has a similar plan to open up Coal India, a notoriously inept monopolist, to competition and to resuscitate India's state-run banks. Yet at the heart of all these efforts, a tension remains: who are SOEs run for? The public good, as interpreted by politicians? Or shareholders? Only some countries have resolved this, either by the state selling out completely, or by establishing robust mechanisms to keep firms at arms' length from the government, such as at Temasek, Singapore's state holding company. Until this question is resolved the value-destroying impulses of SOEs will remain, and investors will be wary of both established firms and newcomers. That is why, as the box alongside describes, not a single foreign investor took part in Vietnam's latest flotation of a state firm. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Russian President Vladimir Putin expressed his belief that Russia is the strongest nation, which will lead to — in his eyes — a positive end in Crimea, according to an interview with the state-owned TASS news agency. During the interview, Putin stated that everything will "end well" in Crimea because "it's just that we're stronger [than] everybody." "We're stronger," he said, "because we're right. When the Russian feels that he's right, he's unstoppable. I'm saying this sincerely, not just to pontificate," he added. Right now, there is an ongoing conflict in the southern and eastern parts of Ukraine — areas that have had predominantly ethnic Russian populations since the days of the Soviet Union. Back in March 2014, Russia annexed Crimea, which was previously a part of Ukraine. Since then, there has been conflict between the pro-Russian separatists and the Ukrainian government — most notably in the Luhansk and Donetsk regions. Certain inhabitants of the region want to join Russia, while others want to remain in Ukraine. But the Russian government has its own plan for Ukraine: "federalization." "Each region [in Ukraine] would have control of its economy, taxes, culture, language, education, and 'external economic and cultural connections with neighboring countries or regions,'" Russia's foreign minister Sergei Lavrov has previously stated about the "federalization" plan, according to The Guardian. This would give greater autonomy to the southern and eastern parts of Ukraine — where the conflict is currently going on. In simple terms, these regions would be directly associated with Russia, rather than with Ukraine. Noted American political scientist Ian Bremmer recently stated that "the Kremlin is moving towards making Crimea and the Southeast Ukraine a single place" and "there's very little the Ukrainians can do" because their "military will remain badly outgunned, and the local populations in the region remain fairly anti-Kiev." Although some people have expressed their beliefs that Putin is just winging it right now in Ukraine, Putin stated in the TASS interview that the current situation — including the actions in Crimea and afterwards — "is a strategic decision." "I have developed a certain style over the years. I never make arbitrary decisions — the ones whose outcomes I cannot see," Putin said. "It's like when you're [driving] on the road: if you're not sure, don't pass [the car next to you]... You have to be absolutely clear that there's no upcoming traffic — that you're truly in control of the situation." "Those who are trying to compete with us, are on the wrong side of the road. We're on the right side of the road, and we're on cruise control," Putin stated about the current situation. FREE AppDownload
Robert Shiller, Business InsiderYesterday, I mentioned again that I am increasingly concerned about the level of stock prices.  Specifically, I said that, even if stock prices continue to go higher from here, which they might, I think that they'll eventually crash back down below today's levels — possibly far below. Even if stocks don't eventually crash, but just move sideways, I think returns will be lousy for the next 7 years. In light of that view, several readers have asked why I am not selling my stocks or even going short (betting on a crash). After all, if I think that stocks might tank from here, wouldn't this be a wonderful opportunity to make or save some money? That's a perfectly reasonable question.  Here's why I'm not selling my stocks or going short the stock market: * My portfolio is well diversified.  My savings are composed primarily of low-cost index funds holding stocks, bonds, cash, and real-estate. If the stock market collapsed, this diversification would cushion the blow. It would also (I hope) keep me from panicking and selling near the bottom. (This is a real risk, one I occasionally succumbed to early in my investing life.) I also have enough of my portfolio in cash that, if the market does crash, I'll be able to rebalance into stocks at a much lower level. * I don't invest money in the stock market that I think I will need to use in the next 10 years. The stock market does crash occasionally. And the last thing you want is to have to sell your stocks during the period when the market is "crashed." If the stock market crashes permanently, or we get in a Japan-type situation in which stocks remain clobbered for decades, then, yes, I'll be bummed I didn't sell some now. But otherwise I expect any crash to be relatively temporary, just as the crash of 2008-2009 was. * There's nothing else to buy: The outlook for other asset classes over the next 10 years is no more attractive than it is for stocks (and, in some scenarios, it is worse). If interest rates ever rise back to normal levels, bonds will get obliterated. Cash is earning nothing. Real-estate is also expensive by many measures. So selling stocks and moving to, say, bonds, might be just leaping from the pot into the fire. * There is a reasonable likelihood that inflation will accelerate at some point over the next decade, and stocks are actually a good hedge against inflation. Unlike bonds and cash, stocks are "real" assets. They represent an ownership share in an enterprise whose business will adjust to inflation by raising the nominal level of prices, wages, and profits. Stocks don't necessarily do well in high-inflation environments (stocks were flat in nominal terms from 1966-1982 and dropped considerably after adjusting for inflation). But they do better than bonds, which get demolished. * I have learned the hard way that market timing is very difficult. It is really hard to correctly time major market reversals. (I learned this as an analyst during the dotcom crash in 2000, and my mistake cost me and my clients a fortune.) And it is really, really hard to correctly time two major market reversals in a row, which is what I would have to do for it to be a smart idea for me to dump my stocks now. Specifically, if I sell now, and the stock market does, in fact, crash, I will then have to figure out the right moment to get back in. (Given inflation, remaining on the sidelines forever would be a disaster.) If the market drops, say, 25%, it will be because things look so terrible that it will look like the market is going to drop another 25%. And who wants to buy only to have the market crash another 25%? If I set a hard "buy" floor at 30%, meanwhile, the market will probably drop 28.8% and then skyrocket, leaving me alone at the station as it rolls away. * Even if I am right about lousy future returns, the market might just move sideways. Instead of crashing over the next year or two, the market might rise another 10%-30%-50%-100% and then correct the "imbalance" by parking in place for 10-20 years. It will be psychologically difficult for me to buy back in at a higher level after selling here, especially if I am still worried about a crash. (And if I wait to buy in until I am NOT worried about a crash, I'll be waiting for Godot.) * If I sell now, I'll have to pay taxes. Thanks to my indexing strategy, I have captured every point of the move up from the 2009 market low (I also captured every point of the crash, so I don't say this to gloat). When markets crash, I also buy more of them, so I was lucky enough to get some new stock in 2008 and 2009 at much lower levels than today. So if I sell now, I'll have some capital gains taxes to pay.  For taxable investors, unlike fund managers who get judged on pre-tax returns, taxes are a real and important issue. The market would have to drop at least 20% from where a taxable investor sold — and the taxable investor would then have to get back in at that level and ride the market back up — for the investor to save money selling at the top. * Oddly, the best thing that could happen for my long-term stock returns would be for the market to crash 50% and then stay crashed for 5-7 years before going up again. I reinvest dividends. So if the market drops by, say, 50% over the next year, and then stays at, say, DOW 7,500 for 5-7 years, the stocks I own will reinvest 5-7 years worth of dividends at half the price per share than I am paying today. This will result in my accumulating twice as many new shares over the next 5-7 years as I will if stocks stay where they currently are. Then, 5-7 years from now, when the stock market finally begins to recover, these new shares will act as a sort of portfolio turbocharger, boosting my returns.   * Lastly, importantly, just because I firmly believe that long-term stock returns will be lousy doesn't mean that I know they will. I am never certain about any future market behavior. And neither, by the way, is anyone else. I would respectfully suggest that anyone who is even highly confident about future market behavior either doesn't have much market experience or is deluding themselves. I am reasonably confident that stock returns will be crappy for the next decade — because all the valid valuation measures I know of suggest that they will. But sometimes things change fundamentally and the old rules no longer apply. And it's certainly possible that it's "different this time."  In short, the only thing I am really worried about as a stock-market investor is a permanent crash. And if the stock market crashes permanently, it will likely be because the United States has experienced a communist revolution in which all private assets are seized or some other cataclysm. And if that happens, I'm going to have bigger things to worry about than stock prices. SEE ALSO: Stocks Are Now So Fantastically Expensive That Long-Term Returns Will Likely Be Negative FREE AppDownload
					Your browser does not support the video tag.						Jim Laird				 Japan has a demographic problem, which has become an economic problem. The population is gradually getting older, people are having fewer children, and the ratio between prime age workers and retirees is shrinking. That means less consumption, more fixed incomes, and a greater need for government benefits. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has a steep uphill battle ahead of him when it comes to trying to grow GDP. Jim Laird at Laird Research has a great post on his site showing what Japan's demographic changes look like visually (in addition to a few other countries). Notice that we're nowhere near the worst of it: the young working population is estimated to continue shrinking long into the future. Contrast this with a growing country like Nigeria: 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						Jim Laird				 The thing about these broad demographic trends is that they have a lot of momentum behind them, and are therefore basically unchangeable in the medium term without major changes in immigration policy. Even if prime age workers in Japan started having many more children, it would be at least 25 years before the economy saw that benefit.  FREE AppDownload
Some 90 million light-years away, astronomers have discovered a highly unusual object. One explanation might help test Albert Einstein’s theory of general relativity. This video originally appeared on Slate Video. Watch More: slate.com/video Jim Festante is an actor/writer in Los Angeles and regular video contributor to Slate. He's the author of the Image Comics miniseries The End Times of Bram and Ben.
 Here's something people associate with bigwig CEOs: golf.  But there's a problem: If your company's CEO golfs a lot, your company is probably underperforming. A paper from Lee Biggerstaff at Miami University (Ohio), David C. Cicero at the University of Alabama, and Andy Puckett at the University of Tennessee published in August (which we were first alerted to by Bloomberg's Matt Levine) looks at the relationship between CEOs who play lots of golf and the performance of those CEOs' companies. The findings are not in favor of the golfers.  The authors said they were seeking to learn how company performance related to CEOs spending time away from their companies. They settled on golf as a proxy for leisure, or a way to measure how much the CEO was "shirking" responsibilities at the company.  The authors write that they chose golf because "a plurality of CEOs list golf as their preferred outlet for leisure and because golf commands a significant time commitment." To conduct this research, the authors hand-collected (!) golfing records for 363 S&amp;P 1500 CEOs from a USGA database containing records for each round recorded in the system by golfers from 2008 to 2012.  Here are some of the highlights of the paper's findings: Among the other choice bits of info from the report is that Jimmy Cayne, the former CEO of Bear Stearns, spent 10 of 21 working days away from the office playing golf or bridge in July 2007, the same month that two Bear Stearns hedge funds collapsed. (That info is gleaned from a report in The Wall Street Journal by Kate Kelly.) As we've highlighted recently in writing about the "revolving door" issue that affects some Wall Street analysts, numerous things seem weird about Wall Street or the business world but are sort of hard to prove.  This paper takes steps toward proving something lots of people might have a hunch about. If you went up to someone on the street and asked what a CEO has to do, it doesn't seem unlikely that you'd get a response like "play golf with clients." And while on some level entertaining clients — or keeping clients happy, or making appearances on behalf of your company — is part of what comes with being a CEO, playing golf almost every other day is (probably) not in the job description.  But if you play lots of golf and then get fired as a CEO for doing so, I guess you could just go play more golf.  So, win-win? We've embedded the whole paper below. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSwedish banker and industrialist Jacob Wallenberg speaksSTOCKHOLM (Reuters) - Jacob Wallenberg, the 58-year-old head of one of Europe's most enduring family dynasties, is trying to work out how the empire controlling much of Sweden's economy could look with a woman or someone without the family name at the helm. Roughly 30 members of the sixth generation, aged between 15 and 30, are contenders to see if they could one day run Wallenberg's Investor holding company and several foundations with major stakes in Electrolux, Atlas Copco and Ericsson. There are no clear favorites and the job could also go to an outsider, but whoever is picked to lead an empire so famous a popular beef dish takes the family name, will have to decide if it should invest in new and faster growth companies beyond its financial and industrial roots. In egalitarian Sweden, the family is seen as a model of how to expand a company through generations without squabbles and the appointment will be made according to experience rather than assertions of birthright. Wallenberg, who has not indicated he plans to step down, organizes seminars for some young family members at an old estate. "They have to get the experience, and then we’ll see what happens. And the sixth generation is in the middle of that right now," said Jacob Wallenberg, sitting in his wood-paneled office five minutes walk from Stockholm's Royal Palace. The empire began in 1856 when Andre Oscar Wallenberg founded Stockholms Enskilda Bank, now part of SEB. The family's fame and influence grew with the company, helped by the construction of a wealthy Stockholm suburb and one scion who became a hero for saving Jews in Hungary in World War II. While many family empires implode in feuds or have the assets split by an ever growing number of descendents, the Wallenbergs have so far avoided this. They began channeling their wealth into non-profit foundations in 1917, which control over 50 percent of voting rights in Investor and other assets in an empire that is today largely run by Jacob and his cousin Marcus. "The Wallenbergs separated the money from the power," said Gunnar Wetterberg, author of "Wallenberg - A family empire". "The harmony that appears to exist today between the cousins is not at all a foregone conclusion." The Wallenbergs are wealthy but not among the top 100 richest Swedes listed by magazine Veckans Affarer. Jacob Wallenberg earned some $320,000 last year in salaries from his chairmanship of Investor, according to the firm's annual report. "It sort of boils down to that we are not personally owners of this. We cannot run into the squabble part," Wallenberg said. "I have to go to a job and earn my living, like everyone else." He gradually took over from his grandfather. He had worked at SEB after spending several years in the navy and getting an MBA in the United States. History has made the family wary of the pressures of the job. Jacob's uncle, Marc Wallenberg, slated to assume the helm of the empire, committed suicide in 1971, shocking Sweden. His daughter, Caroline Ankarcrona, made headlines when she became the first female family member to sit on the board of the Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation and Jacob Wallenberg said he would like to see more women coming through. REUTERS/Anders Wiklund/TT News Agency (Swedish banker and industrialist Jacob Wallenberg is seen in this picture taken on September 24, 2009. Under Jacob and Marcus Wallenberg as well as CEO Borje Ekholm - a family outsider - Investor has moved into unlisted companies from medical services to schools. Unlisted firms have jumped to nearly a quarter of Investor's holdings. Still with most holdings in a comfort zone of listed blue chips, some investors would like a more aggressive strategy. It is something the Wallenberg's largely fend off, with a priority on long term planning rather than quarterly deadlines. Others say Investor has moved too slowly. It entered healthcare and champions R&amp;D spending, but it shunned high growth consumer technology, in contrast to family-run Kinnevik. "I think he (Jacob) is a bit risk averse," said an executive who has worked with Wallenberg for more than a decade. Some point to rival Swedish holding company Kinnevik and its bold bets on fast-growing online ventures such as Zalando, but for all that Investor shares are up 129 percent over the past three years versus an 82 percent gain in Kinnevik. "Over time I wouldn't be surprised if you saw one or two more unlisted companies," said Wallenberg. "But is it something where you see quick moves, significant moves? No. "We're working on buying to hold rather than buying to sell." Business relationships fostered over more than a century often give even existing holdings an edge when deals are struck in sectors familiar to the Wallenbergs, such as in Electrolux' $3.3 billion buy of General Electric's appliances business. "I think when it comes to the long-term relationship between GE and Electrolux, it went through the Wallenbergs," said Electrolux chairman Ronnie Leten. "When it comes to the CEOs of these big international companies, the Wallenbergs know these people." (Additional reporting by Johannes Hellstrom and Mia Shanley; Editing by Anna Willard) FREE AppDownload
Stack Commerce The holidays are coming up.  That means a lot of parties. When you're out and you've had a couple of drinks, use this breathalyzer to make sure you're OK to drive — you need a reliable way to make better decisions. The BACtrack Vio is a quick and easy way to monitor your blood alcohol content at any time, and we've got it for 14% off. Even if you're not driving, use this to think twice about that next beer at the company party. No one wants to be the subject of the watercooler talk the next morning. It's compatible with your iOS or Android smartphone, and is easy to conceal on your keys. The BACtrack Vio has a sanitary flip-up mouthpiece to keep out germs and impurities. You'll be happy you checked it. Get 14% off The BACtrack Vio ($42.99). Full specs below: Get 14% off The BACtrack Vio ($42.99). Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
 While at Harvard Business School, a professor told investment bank CEO Peter J Solomon: ‘If you want to do something for society go to Wall Street, make a lot of money. And you’ll do more for society using that money that you make on Wall Street than you ever will in either politics or social welfare'." That, he tells OneWire CEO Skiddy von Stade, is part of how he got on the path to building his own shop, Peter J Solomon Company. It was the first private investment bank on Wall Street. Solomon also served as Deputy Mayor of New York during the Ed Koch administration, which surprised him more than those who had known him at Harvard. "I didn't know Ed Koch... I didn't particularly like him," said Solomon. And it wasn't an easy job. At the time, New York City was in a very dark place fiscally — there was an energy crisis and unemployment was high. It was only with a push from his boss at Lehman Brothers, Peter Peterson, that Solomon took the position. He ended up loving the experience, though, and it formed the way he thinks about government today. "The only time government is worthwhile is in crises. And the time that I'm critical of government, like the financial crisis, is when they can't function because the only reason they're there is for crises." Solomon pointed to Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson as an example. During the financial crisis Paulson said he didn't have the authority to take certain actions to save the economy. “In government, you don’t ask for permission, you ask for forgiveness,” Solomon finished. Watch the full OneWire interview above and subscribe to the series to get new interviews as soon as they are posted. FREE AppDownload
LONDON (Reuters) - European Central Bank President Mario Draghi has moved closer to launching sovereign debt purchases and data this week will show just how dangerously low inflation has fallen in the $13 trillion euro zone economy. A sickly Europe has held back global economic growth for years, and now it is contributing significantly to powerful forces already dragging down inflation across the globe. A spectacular drop in crude oil prices over the past month will be the center of discussion when ministers from the world's top oil exporters meets in Vienna on Friday. The key question there is whether Saudi Arabia, which signaled last month it was comfortable with lower oil prices, accelerating a plunge in the price of crude to a third since June, will stick to that view. But rapidly-increasing U.S. oil production, coinciding with shaky demand from China and Europe, is likely to keep a lid on the price no matter what the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) decides. The latest Reuters poll suggests euro zone inflation relapsed to 0.3 percent in November, far from the ECB target of just below 2 percent. "It is essential to bring back inflation to target and without delay," Draghi said on Friday. "Monetary policy can and will do its part to achieve this. But it is also clear that, as monetary policy works on the demand side of the economy, other policies can assist in this process – or at least not counteract it." After many years of austerity, Draghi and others have come around to the idea of loosening fiscal policy to invest in infrastructure. But Germany, which could best afford it, is focused on balancing its books for the first time since 1969.   ALARM BELLS Despite years of zero interest rates across mature economies and trillions of dollars worth of emergency stimulus from central banks, alarm bells are ringing worldwide. Japan's experiment in raising sales taxes to try to revive inflation spawned news of yet another recession. The People's Bank of China, which is dealing with a falling property market and an inflation rate that has tumbled to just 1.6 percent, unexpectedly cut its main interest rates for the first time in more than two years on Friday. The ECB, with rates as low they can go, has been doing everything in its power short of printing money - an option staunchly opposed by Germany. Yet private credit figures this week may once again fail to show any real impact from the cheap long-term loans the ECB has offered banks to lend on to businesses . Bank credit to the private sector has been contracting for more than two years and the few economists who gave a forecast expect another roughly 1 percent fall compared with a year ago. Even if the ECB does engage in sovereign QE, it may not make much difference with euro bond yields already so low. The main effect would be to "contribute to a further depreciation of the euro to $1.15 by end-2016 and mitigate the upward pressure on bond yields in the euro zone that is likely to result from rises in U.S. Treasury yields as the Fed tightens the reins," wrote Melanie Debono at Capital Economics. But a rise in U.S. Treasury yields has been part of many economists' forecasts for years now. Despite solid growth and modest inflation - likely to be confirmed in official data next week - Treasury yields have either remained low or moved lower. With so many central banks having eased or prepared for possible easing over the last several months, it is becoming increasingly doubtful that the Federal Reserve will raise its benchmark rate from a record low by the middle of next year.   (Editing by Ruth Pitchford) FREE AppDownload

REUTERS/Maxim ShemetovVladmir PutinMOSCOW (Reuters) - With Russia's economy battered by economic sanctions and plunging oil prices, President Vladimir Putin has allowed the central bank to administer strong medicine, sharply raising interest rates even as it freed the rouble to float. Such tough measures may well help push the country deeper into recession next year, but have so far staved off financial panic, runaway inflation or a currency meltdown like the one that helped catapult Putin into power in the 1990s. Those who follow the central bank say the hawkish moves are a result of Putin, known for closely managing Russia's machinery of power, giving the bank's technocrats free rein. "There is ongoing criticism of the central bank and of the whole government being Putin's lap dog," said a high-ranked government source. "But all things considered, the central bank is now much more autonomous than it is broadly perceived." The high interest rates will hurt. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development says recession is certain, predicting 0.2 percent contraction for the full year of 2015. Politicians have grumbled. Economy Minister Alexei Ulyukayev sent a letter to the Kremlin in the summer urging greater "cooperation" between the bank and the government, viewed as a plea for looser policy. "There is a tension between the government and the central bank as regards growth. The effect of these stabilization policies is going to be to deepen the recession," said Christopher Granville, managing director of London-based consultancy Trusted Sources. Putin himself has complained about high borrowing costs. But so far, he seems to trust the hawkish instincts at the bank. "What the central bank is doing is in line with what the leadership wants, in a strategic way," said Granville. "Stability is the absolute top priority, rather than avoiding negative growth at all costs." Still, there is always a chance that Putin can change his approach. Remarks he made on Tuesday hinted as much. Speaking to Finance Minister Anton Siluanov, he called for "teamwork between the central bank and the government". Exchange rates are an obsession for Russians since the 1990s, when hyperinflation after the fall of the Soviet Union wiped out the financial system, destroyed savings and brought the economy to its knees. A second currency collapse and default in 1998 propelled Putin into power the following year, and a stable rouble has been one of the most prized achievements of his rule ever since. Putin himself makes much of the central bank's independence. "We - from the executive power level - do not meddle in the policy of the central bank," he said this month when meeting IMF head Christine Lagarde. "The central bank, in accordance with the law, conducts an independent policy. But of course we look carefully at what is happening." Thomson ReutersRussia's Central Bank Governor Nabiullina applauds during the VTB Capital "Russia Calling!" Investment Forum in MoscowIn an emailed comment, the bank said its independence, "one of the fundamental principles in understanding of monetary policy", was enshrined in the constitution. Some of Putin's critics say he keeps out of monetary policy because he feels insecure about an area outside his expertise. "The central bank of Russia is the most independent institution in modern Russia," said Sergei Aleksashenko, a former deputy central bank governor and critic of the president. "That originates from Mr Putin's inability to understand how monetary authorities operate. He understands the importance and influence of the central bank but is afraid to influence it in a strong manner." Unlike at some ministries and top companies, the bank's management does not include any of Putin's powerful old friends. "It's just a bunch of glasses-wearing geeks; you can argue more or less competent, but geeks," said the high-ranked government source. Putin has put his trust in the bank's governor Elvira Nabiullina, 51, at the bank's helm for 17 months after serving Putin for years as economic advisor and cabinet minister. "She has turned out to be stronger than expected as the central bank governor," said Anders Aslund, senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. Nabiullina, in turn, has put monetary policy in the hands of Ksenia Yudayeva, a U.S. trained economist regarded as one of the brightest in the country. The rouble stability of the Putin years has been underwritten by vast currency reserves earned from selling oil and gas. But when oil prices fell and sanctions were imposed over the Ukraine crisis this year, even Russia's $420 billion war chest showed its limits. After spending $30 billion supporting the currency in a single month, Nabiullina brought forward long-awaited plans to float the rouble, abandoning efforts to keep the exchange rate within an official band. On the morning of Nov. 10, when it was announced, even the heads of the bank's departments were taken by surprise, sources said, emphasizing Nabiullina's ability to prevent leaks. Before she cut the rouble loose, Nabiullina sharply hiked interest rates to ensure that savers would hold rubles and prevent a panicked flight, like the one that hit in 1998. The rouble is still some 29 percent down against the dollar, but has rallied in recent days. Earlier this week, Nabiullina stoically defended the decision to float the currency. "It is absolutely impossible to control the exchange rate ... in the current economic conditions that the Russian economy is now in, by keeping its dependency on the price of oil," she told lawmakers in parliament.   (Addtional reporting by Alexei Anishchuk, Elena Fabrichnaya and Jason Bush, Writing by Lidia Kelly; Editing by Jason Bush, Timothy Heritage and Peter Graff) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stefan WermuthFormer Harvard University President Lawrence H. SummersAbout a year ago, former Treasury secretary Larry Summers gave his famous speech at the IMF about "secular stagnation." The basic idea behind secular stagnation is that the economy in its current condition is unable to create enough demand to sustain its growth trend, requiring negative interest rates for the Fed to hit its employment and inflation goals. In a note to clients over the weekend, Goldman Sachs economist Jari Stehn revisits Summers' hypothesis, and writes that while it's still early, there are signs pointing towards a US economy that may not, in fact, be stuck in secular stagnation. The key figure proponents of the secular stagnation hypothesis point to is the "output gap" that has shown up in the economy since about 2006. Since 2006, the US has underperformed the Congressional Budget Office's projections for real GDP. And so while the financial crisis and resulting recession certainly put a dent in GDP, the economy still hasn't gotten back to the growth trend it was experiencing before the crisis. The the economy has failed to close this "output gap" has been a staple of the argument that we're stuck in secular stagnation, and that our economic problems of the last several years are secular rather than cyclical. Goldman expects the US economy to experience above-trend growth through 2017. This is in contrast to an economy stuck in secular stagnation, which would not see above-trend growth over a period of several years. As evidence that the US economy is beginning to meaningfully take off, Stehn cites Goldman's Current Activity Indicator (CAI), a composite figure developed by Goldman Sachs that is 25 economic indicators, including things like the jobs report, jobless claims, and manufacturing surveys. Over the past year, the CAI has increased by 3%, the fastest since the recession. And while Stehn notes that this is just a preliminary sign rejecting secular stagnation — and that these gains have been made with rates at 0% — the improvement in the CAI is a sign that the economic malaise of the last 5 or so years was cyclical rather than secular. As far as monetary policy is concerned, Stehn writes that even if the economy has been slow to recover due to cyclical rather than secular problems, it will likely still be appropriate to keep policy accommodative (i.e., keep rates "lower for longer.").  But Stehn is optimistic that the US economy, while disappointing over the last several years, is not stuck in the economic purgatory that secular stagnation implies. That fate, Stehn writes, may belong to Europe.  FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesPremier Li KeqiangBEIJING (Reuters) - China's leadership and central bank are ready to cut interest rates again and also loosen lending restrictions, concerned that falling prices could trigger a surge in debt defaults, business failures and job losses, said sources involved in policy-making. Friday's surprise cut in rates, the first in more than two years, reflects a change of course by Beijing and the central bank, which had persisted with modest stimulus measures before finally deciding last week that a bold monetary policy step was required to stabilize the world's second-largest economy. Economic growth has slowed to 7.3 percent in the third quarter and policymakers feared it was on the verge of dipping below 7 percent - a rate not seen since the global financial crisis. Producer prices, charged at the factory gate, have been falling for almost three years, piling pressure on manufacturers, and consumer inflation is also weak. "Top leaders have changed their views," said a senior economist at a government think-tank involved in internal policy discussions. The economist, who declined to be named, said the People's Bank of China had shifted its focus toward broad-based stimulus and were open to more rate cuts as well as a cut to the banking industry's reserve requirement ratio (RRR), which effectively restricts the amount of capital available to fund loans. China cut the RRR for some banks this year but has not announced a banking-wide reduction in the ratio since May 2012. "Further interest rate cuts should be in the pipeline as we have entered into a rate-cut cycle and RRR cuts are also likely," the think-tank's economist said. Friday's move, which cut one-year benchmark lending rates by 40 basis points to 5.6 percent, also arose from concerns that local governments are struggling to manage high debt burdens amidst reforms to their funding arrangements, the sources said. Top leaders had been resisting a rate cut, fearing it could fuel debt and property bubbles and dent their reformist credentials, but were eventually swayed by signs of deteriorating growth as the property sector cooled. Until then, they had persisted with targeted policy steps, such as cuts in reserve ratios for selected banks and liquidity injections into the banking system. But these failed to bring down borrowing costs for the corporate sector. "Increasing liquidity by the central bank has failed to lower borrowing costs for the real economy," said a former central bank researcher who now works for the government. "Employment still holds up, but corporate profits have been squeezed as producer price deflation bites, and it's unreasonable for banks to have hefty profits."  Many Chinese economists had been calling for bolder policy actions, as recent data showed the economy losing more steam in the fourth quarter and consumer price inflation falling. Full-year growth is on track to undershoot the government’s 7.5 percent target and mark the weakest expansion in 24 years. "GDP growth is near 7 percent which is at a dangerous level given it could still go even lower due to structural reforms," said Li Xunlei, chief economist at Haitong Securities. "The rate cut helped boost confidence in next year's growth outlook," said Li, who was among economists who discussed policy issues with Premier Li Keqiang at a recent cabinet session. Government think-tanks, which make policy proposals, have urged Beijing to cut its economic growth target next year, probably to around 7 percent, from around 7.5 percent this year. The leadership is due to map out economic and reform plans for 2015 at a work conference next month, including economic targets which will be unveiled in parliament next March. China's leaders also worried that a sharp economic slowdown could hurt employment and undermine public support for reforms. "Employment still holds up now, but it will definitely be affected if growth slows further," said Yin Zhongli, senior economist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, a top government think-tank. The central bank does not have the final word on adjusting interest rates or the value of the yuan. The basic course of monetary and currency policy is set by the State Council, China's cabinet, or by the Communist Party's ruling Politburo. Beijing wants to push some painful reforms next year, including fiscal reforms to deal with a mountain of local government debt, and the risk of pushing local governments into defaults could be offset by lower interest rates. Some policy insiders said the rate cut was also influenced by talks at this month's summit of the G20 group of nations, which pledged to boost flagging global growth. China, which will host the G20 summit in 2016, is keen to maintain its influence as a major driver of global growth. "China is keen to play a bigger role within G20 and it needs to maintain relatively fast economic growth," said Zhao Xijun, an influential economist at Renmin University. (Editing by Mark Bendeich) FREE AppDownload
