Bloomberg TVHoward MarksFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. HOWARD MARKS: Success In Investing Is A Function Of What You Pay, Not What You Buy (Knowledge@Wharton) In a recent visit to Wharton, Oak Tree Capital's Howard Marks, gave some solid investing advice. Speaking of his time working at Citibank in the 1970s and 80s, Marks said Citibank's Nifty 50 policy meant it "invested in “the best companies in America and lost a lot of money." Then it began to invest in "the worst companies in America and made a lot of money." Looking back at that he said "it shouldn’t take you too long to figure out that success in investing is not a function of what you buy. It’s a function of what you pay." Citibank asked Marks to look into high yield bonds in 1978 and he started its portfolio of high yield bonds for them. Oaktree is the world's largest distressed-debt investor according to Bloomberg.  Investors Are Increasingly Interested In Local Investments (The Wall Street Journal)  Investors are beginning to pay more attention to local investments, writes Katherine Collins is chief executive of Honeybee Capital, in a new WSJ column. While many investors already have such investments in mind, others are interested in investments in their community but not sure how to go about finding them.  "The point is local investments take many forms, from local municipal bonds to more entrepreneurial ventures like lending groups and crowdfunding campaigns. And because of the growing interest in this investment space, advisers and clients have access to more resources, whether they be online or through local community organizations, than ever before." The Rise Of The $156 Trillion Market For Global Financial Assets (World Gold Council)  Global financial assets have surged in the last decade. Global financial assets now total a whopping $156 trillion and this growth has been led by fixed income markets, according to the World Gold Council.  "Between 2000 and 2013, debt markets have grown three-fold, from US$33tn to US$90tn, as a result of ageing demographics in many developed countries, heightened risk aversion, low interest-rate policies and record government spending to boost ailing economies," according to the report. "At the same time, global stock markets have also grown – at a relatively more modest pace of 35% – from US$49tn in 2000 to US$66tn in 2013, partly driven by economic growth in emerging markets, better prospects for economic recovery in developed markets and an increase in initial public offerings (IPOs)." World Gold Council5 Essentials For Every Retirement Portfolio (Marketwatch) Robert Isbitts at Sungarden Investment Research thinks that every retirement portfolio needs five things. 1. Consistent income –"After over 30 years of falling interest rates, today’s income investor faces a similar situation predicament," writes Isbitts. "Higher rates will be a vicious surprise to many as bonds produce negative returns (as some major bond indexes did in 2013). Even if bond rates stay in their current range, their income yields are quite low by retiree’s standards." One option is dividends.  2.Capital preservation - Determine what would be a big loss for your portfolio and know "your stress point."3. Liquidity - Seek out liquid investments because you never know when you need your money.4. Competitive cost - Cost is an important consideration for investors, "and they often fail to consider an investment vehicle with a zero expense ratio: Individual stocks." 5. Long-term growth - Understand how much you want to grow your principal and the time frame for this growth. Also understand the odds of doing this. Structure A Portfolio To Match Investor Goals (JP Morgan Asset Management) JP Morgan Asset Management's 2014 "Guide to Retirement has a three tiered  pyramid on structuring your portfolio to meet investor goals based on the investors 'needs, wants, and legacy'. JP Morgan Asset Management FREE AppDownload
William Wei, Business InsiderFacebook is buying Oculus VR, a startup that makes virtual reality headsets, in a $2 billion deal. Oculus doesn't make a consumer product yet, but its headset called the Oculus Rift for video game developers has completely changed the way many feel about video games. The device is nearly impossible to describe. It makes you feel like you're truly immersed in a virtual environment. It's one of those things you have to try to fully understand. And we guarantee it'll blow your mind. Console gaming companies have sensed the threat of Oculus, which is why Sony announced a similar headset for its new PlayStation 4 gaming console. However, it's unclear when Sony's headset will launch. The question now is: why would Facebook buy a video game hardware company? According to a statement from CEO Mark Zuckerberg, the company plans to expand Oculus beyond gaming: After games, we're going to make Oculus a platform for many other experiences. Imagine enjoying a court side seat at a game, studying in a classroom of students and teachers all over the world or consulting with a doctor face-to-face -- just by putting on goggles in your home. Zuckerberg expanded on that in a conference call following the announcement, saying he believes virtual reality will be the next big computing platform after mobile devices like smartphones and tablets. "History suggests that there will be more platforms to come," Zuckerberg said on the conference call, adding that the person who controls that major computing platform will be able to shape the entire tech industry. "Today's acquisition is a long-term bet on the future of computing," Zuckerberg said. Oculus got its start on crowdfunding site Kickstarter, where it raised $2.4 million in 2012. Since then, other VCs have invested in the company. Most recently, Oculus raised $75 million in a round led by Andreessen Horowitz. Marc Andreessen, a partner at Andreessen Horowitz and a Facebook board member, tweeted today that he recused himself from acquisition talks between Facebook and Oculus VR. Last summer, Business Insider spoke with Oculus VR's 21-year-old founder Palmer Luckey about how he came up with the device. He got started at a young age, tinkering with all kinds of computerized headsets. You can read the full interview here. By the way, this isn't Facebook's only recent major acquisition. Just a few weeks ago, Facebook bought WhatsApp in a $19 billion deal. Here's Zuckerberg's full statement on the deal: I'm excited to announce that we've agreed to acquire Oculus VR, the leader in virtual reality technology. Our mission is to make the world more open and connected. For the past few years, this has mostly meant building mobile apps that help you share with the people you care about. We have a lot more to do on mobile, but at this point we feel we're in a position where we can start focusing on what platforms will come next to enable even more useful, entertaining and personal experiences. This is where Oculus comes in. They build virtual reality technology, like the Oculus Rift headset. When you put it on, you enter a completely immersive computer-generated environment, like a game or a movie scene or a place far away. The incredible thing about the technology is that you feel like you're actually present in another place with other people. People who try it say it's different from anything they've ever experienced in their lives. Oculus's mission is to enable you to experience the impossible. Their technology opens up the possibility of completely new kinds of experiences. Immersive gaming will be the first, and Oculus already has big plans here that won't be changing and we hope to accelerate. The Rift is highly anticipated by the gaming community, and there's a lot of interest from developers in building for this platform. We're going to focus on helping Oculus build out their product and develop partnerships to support more games. Oculus will continue operating independently within Facebook to achieve this. But this is just the start. After games, we're going to make Oculus a platform for many other experiences. Imagine enjoying a courtside seat at a game, studying in a classroom of students and teachers all over the world or consulting with a doctor face-to-face -- just by putting on goggles in your home. This is really a new communication platform. By feeling truly present, you can share unbounded spaces and experiences with the people in your life. Imagine sharing not just moments with your friends online, but entire experiences and adventures. These are just some of the potential uses. By working with developers and partners across the industry, together we can build many more. One day, we believe this kind of immersive, augmented reality will become a part of daily life for billions of people. Virtual reality was once the dream of science fiction. But the internet was also once a dream, and so were computers and smartphones. The future is coming and we have a chance to build it together. I can't wait to start working with the whole team at Oculus to bring this future to the world, and to unlock new worlds for all of us. Here's the press release from Facebook: Facebook today announced that it has reached a definitive agreement to acquire Oculus VR, Inc., the leader in immersive virtual reality technology, for a total of approximately $2 billion. This includes$400 million in cash and 23.1 million shares of Facebook common stock (valued at $1.6 billion based on the average closing price of the 20 trading days preceding March 21, 2014 of $69.35 per share).  The agreement also provides for an additional$300 million earn-out in cash and stock based on the achievement of certain milestones. Oculus is the leader in immersive virtual reality technology and has already built strong interest among developers, having received more than 75,000 orders for development kits for the company's virtual reality headset, the Oculus Rift. While the applications for virtual reality technology beyond gaming are in their nascent stages, several industries are already experimenting with the technology, and Facebook plans to extend Oculus' existing advantage in gaming to new verticals, including communications, media and entertainment, education and other areas.  Given these broad potential applications, virtual reality technology is a strong candidate to emerge as the next social and communications platform. "Mobile is the platform of today, and now we're also getting ready for the platforms of tomorrow," said Facebook founder and CEO, Mark Zuckerberg. "Oculus has the chance to create the most social platform ever, and change the way we work, play and communicate." "We are excited to work with Mark and the Facebook team to deliver the very best virtual reality platform in the world," said Brendan Iribe, co-founder and CEO of Oculus VR. "We believe virtual reality will be heavily defined by social experiences that connect people in magical, new ways. It is a transformative and disruptive technology, that enables the world to experience the impossible, and it's only just the beginning." Oculus will maintain its headquarters in Irvine, CA, and will continue development of the Oculus Rift, its ground-breaking virtual reality platform. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2014. FREE AppDownload
President Obama set the chattering classes abuzz after his recent unilateral announcement to raise the minimum wage for newly hired federal contract workers. During his State of the Union address in January, he sang the praises for his decision, saying that “It’s good for the economy; it’s good for America.”  As the worldwide economic slump drags on, the political drumbeat to either introduce minimum wage laws (read: Germany) or increase the minimums in countries where these laws exist — such as Indonesia — is becoming deafening. Yet the glowing claims about minimum wage laws don’t pass the economic smell test. Just look at the data from Europe (see the accompanying chart). Steve Hanke There are seven European Union (E.U.) countries in which no minimum wage is mandated (Austria, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Italy, and Sweden). If we compare the levels of unemployment in these countries with E.U. countries that impose a minimum wage, the results are clear. A minimum wage leads to higher levels of unemployment. In the 21 countries with a minimum wage, the average country has an unemployment rate of 11.8%. Whereas, the average unemployment rate in the seven countries without mandated minimum wages is about one third lower – at 7.9%. This point is even more pronounced when we look at rates of unemployment among the E.U.’s youth – defined as those younger than 25 years of age (see the accompanying chart). Steve Hanke In the twenty-one E.U. countries where there are minimum wage laws, 27.7% of the youth demographic – more than one in four young adults – was unemployed in 2012. This is considerably higher than the youth unemployment rate in the seven E.U. countries without minimum wage laws – 19.5% in 2012 – a gap that has only widened since the Lehman Brothers collapse in 2008. So, minimum wage laws – while advertised under the banner of social justice – do not live up to the claims made by those who tout them. They do not lift low wage earners to a so-called “social minimum”. Indeed, minimum wage laws – imposed at the levels employed in Europe – push a considerable number of people into unemployment. And, unless those newly unemployed qualify for government assistance (read: welfare), they will sink below, or further below, the social minimum. As Nobelist Milton Friedman correctly quipped, “A minimum wage law is, in reality, a law that makes it illegal for an employer to hire a person with limited skills.” Dr. Jens Weidmann, President of Germany’s Bundesbank, must have heard Prof. Friedman and looked at these European data before he took on Chancellor Angela Merkel for proposing the introduction of a minimum wage law in Germany. In short, Dr. Weidmann said that this would damage Germany’s labor market and be a German job killer. He is right. And, executives surveyed in the recently released Duke University/CFO Magazine Global Business Outlook Survey agree, too. Indeed, Chief Financial Officers from around the world were interviewed and a significant number of them concurred: a minimum wage increase in the United States –from the current $7.25/hour to President Obama’s proposed $10.10/hour – would kill U.S. jobs. The accompanying table shows what the CFOs had to say. Steve Hanke Perhaps, Prof. Friedman said it best when he concluded that “The real tragedy of minimum wage laws is that they are supported by well-meaning groups who want to reduce poverty. But the people who are hurt most by high minimums are the most poverty stricken.”  High mandated minimum wages will throw people out of work and onto the welfare rolls in cases where unemployment benefits exist. When it comes to welfare payments, they obey the laws of economics, too. Indeed, if something — like unemployment — is subsidized, more of it will be produced. When the data on unemployment benefits speak, they tell us that if the unemployed receive unemployment benefits, the chances that they will become employed are reduced. Those data also show that the probability of an unemployed worker finding employment increases dramatically the closer an unemployed worker comes to the termination date for receipt of his unemployment benefits. In short, when the prospect of losing welfare benefits raises its head, unemployed workers magically tend to find work. The most important lesson to take away from allowing the minimum wage and unemployment benefit data to talk is that abstract notions of what is right, good and just should be examined from a concrete, operational point of view. A dose of reality is most edifying. This article originally appeared at Johns Hopkins University.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Planet_HuggerThe core idea was sound: Two Italian academics set out to formally measure the best financial Tweeters. The execution left much to be desired. Published in English last month by the University of Pavia, "How to measure the quality of financial tweets" lays out an h-index score, modeled on the one commonly used to measure the influence of academic papers, to find the best finance folks to follow on Twitter. (This was brought to our attention by Pawel Morski). But the ingredients in the score seem awfully simplistic: It's basically a weighted score of retweets.  They were also working from an unfiltered list of top finance tweeters they identify as from the Financial Times but which is actually from eFinancialNews. The lack of careful parsing of the list results in Goldman Sachs Elevator and Queen Europe, a mock Angela Merkel account, both labeled as "parody" on FT's original article, coming in with the academics' highest h-index. That's just the start. The study never distinguishes between of the types of information the tweeters are Tweeting. Thus they equate the quality of former Rolling Stone and current First Look Media columnist Matt Taibbi's tweets with PIMCO's, which have been known to move markets. Finally, the apparently meager criteria used in their metric ended up making the rest of the field's scores fairly identical. Pavia FREE AppDownload
But I get the impression that some people — particularly on the right — see fracking as a sort of magic bullet for America’s economic stagnation. Well, that and the repeal of Obamacare. But I urge caution in equating an America energy revolution with an American economic revolution.  It’s a big economy, after all. And it’s tough for any one thing to make a dramatic, overwhelming impact. For instance: the McKinsey Global Institute has projected that so-called unconventional energy production could support 1.7 million jobs by 2020. IHS Global Insight takes its forecast out to 2035 and sees a gain of 2.4 million jobs. Those are big numbers, of course, but they seem less impressive when you consider that total US employment by then might be 160-170 million jobs. Similarly, people may be overestimating the direct impact of oil and gas product on the US economy in recent years. Goldman Sachs estimates that the sector added roughly one-tenth of a percentage point per year to growth over the past decade. The bank also estimate that “core oil and gas employment and employment directly supported by oil and gas” accounts for less than 1% of total US employment and just 3% of the jobs added since the Great Recession. The spillover effects from the shale boom, at least so far, also seem to fewer than generally believed. Goldman: There is little evidence of significant “induced” employment growth in downstream manufacturing industries. Similarly, cap-ex in energy-intensive sectors that might be expected to benefit most from the shale boom has not outperformed cap-ex in other sectors during the recovery, although it did decline by less during the recession. Researchers who expect a large macroeconomic impact from shale often cite the cost advantage it will give to businesses in the US over those in other regions. Access to cheap energy might therefore influence the plant location decisions of both US and foreign businesses. … [Now] there has been a spike in FDI inflows into energy-related sectors in the last few years. … [But] the magnitudes involved are modest. FDI represents only a tenth to a quarter of total investment in these industries in the US. While the spike in energy-intensive FDI is impressive, at its peak it represented about $50 billion in extra investment per year, less than 3% of US investment spending. Goldman’s bottom line: Whether shale becomes a true “game changer” for the US in the long-run depends on a number of highly uncertain factors, including technological innovation and the level of investment in downstream industries. In the shorter-term, however, we see only a modest boost to aggregate macro outcomes rather than a revolution. Now that report is from late last year. But I suddenly thought of it when reading a new report — whose numbers I use above — on the shale revolution over at VoxEU. From the summary: Our analysis suggests that commentators and policymakers need to better distinguish between the ways in which the US shale gas boom constitutes a ‘revolution’ and the ways in which it does not. The US unconventional energy boom has reversed the decline of domestic production, significantly lowered oil and gas imports, reduced gas costs for consumers, and created a political space for tougher regulations on coal-fired power plants. But it is not a panacea. Even if current estimates of production turn out to be accurate, the benefits to the US economy in the long run are relatively small, and the benefits to manufacturing competitiveness in most sectors are even smaller. Supporting the shale boom is an important element of pro-growth public policy. But this welcome windfall shouldn’t preclude creative thinking about other ways to fix the sputtering American growth machine. FREE AppDownload
If you want to have a comfortable retirement, it is very important to begin saving early. It's a point that can't be reiterated enough. Here is another example why. Consider two hypothetical savers, Emily and Dave. Emily puts $200 per month into a retirement account with an estimated 6% rate of return starting at 25. Dave starts saving $200 per month at 35, just 10 years after Emily.  Both continue to add $200 each month until they retire at 65. By the time they are 65, Emily has contributed $96,000, while Dave has contributed $72,000. Here's the trajectory of both of those accounts: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz Emily started saving just 10 years earlier and put in only about 33% more money into her account than Dave put in his. But by the time they are both ready to retire, Emily has almost twice as much as Dave — Emily has $402,492, and Dave has $203,118. That extra 10 years of compounding returns has made Emily's situation far better than Dave's when they are 65.   FREE AppDownload
Anyone who has ever smoked cigarettes knows that smoking is a far cheaper activity in North Carolina than in New York. One of the biggest reasons for the differences in cigarette prices across states is state cigarette taxes. The taxes, in addition to generating revenue for the state government, act as deterrents to smoking in an attempt to improve public health. This map shows state cigarette taxes, based on information from the Tax Foundation. Darker green indicates higher per-pack taxes: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from the Tax Foundation New York has far and away the highest cigarette taxes in the United States at $4.35 per 20 cigarette pack — 84¢ more than the next highest state tax of $3.51 in Massachusetts. The map above only includes state taxes, and not any additional local taxes. Add in New York City's tax of $1.50 per pack, and the $5.85 combined tax goes a long way in explaining why cigarettes cost over ten dollars a pack in the city. Meanwhile, taxes are far lower in the south and midwest — Missouri smokers pay the state only 17¢ for each pack of cigarettes they buy, and six other southern and midwestern states have taxes below 50¢. Here are the per pack cigarette tax rates, ordered from highest to lowest: Tax Foundation FREE AppDownload
Mike TauberFifteen Central Park West (second from left) seen from across Central Park.Fifteen Central Park West — the massive limestone-covered ultra-luxury apartment building on the edge of Columbus Circle — has become an icon on the skyline of Manhattan's West Side and a star of city gossip and real-estate columns. The building has been in existence for less than a decade, but its roster of current and former residents is a who's who of titans from the worlds of finance, real estate, retail, and entertainment, from Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein to Yankees star Alex Rodriguez. In a new book, "House of Outrageous Fortune," Michael Gross goes behind the scenes to tell the complete story of Fifteen, as it's affectionately known. From the building's inception in the minds of developers Arthur and William Lie Zeckendorf to the battle over its unusual facade to the sparring among its strong-headed tenants, Gross makes the case that the building is deserving of its description as the world's most powerful address. Anyone fascinated by the history of luxury real estate in New York City — or the lives of the city's richest and most powerful people — should find the time to read Gross' book. We pulled out some of the most outrageous facts, figures, and records set by 15CPW. 1. Five developers were invited to bid on the lot at West 61st Street and Central Park West. The Zeckendorfs won the property with a bid of $401,050,000 — more than twice the going rate for land in Manhattan at the time. Mike TauberThe front entrance of 15 Central Park West. The spindle-and-lantern motif is featured throughout the building.2. The building broke records even before construction could start. A final holdout tenant from the hotel that previously occupied the land was eventually paid about $17 million to vacate, according to a source. It's likely the highest price ever paid to relocate a tenant in New York. 3. The developers spent an incredible sum on the property, anticipating sky-high returns. All told, "they'd paid about $690 per buildable square foot for the land, they spent about $750 per square foot on their 886,000-square-foot two-tower behemoth," Gross writes. Peter Aaron/OttoThe lobby is decorated with English oak paneling, marble columns, and two fireplaces.4. The lowest price for a unit at 15CPW in the initial 2005 offering was $1.78 million, far above the $1.479 million average price for a Manhattan condo at the time. The priciest condo was initially listed for $41.25 million (it would later resell for far more). 5. Servants' quarters were initially listed for between $650,000 and $1.74 million, and storage units for $35,000. The building's 30 wine cellars ranged from $50,000 to $80,000. Peter Aaron/OttoThe health club has a skylighted pool, weight room, private massage room, and two steam rooms.6. Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein was among the first people to buy an apartment at 15CPW. His duplex was priced at $29 million, but he paid just $25.73 million, a significant discount, according to Gross. Eight other former and present "Goldman bigwigs" were among the building's first purchasers, and musician Sting later took the apartment next door to Blankfein's. 7. Hedge-fund tycoon Daniel Loeb set an early record at Fifteen, "dropping $45 million for his penthouse in what was then a hole in the ground," Gross writes. He famously outbid investor Carl Icahn for the then nonexistent pad.Mike TauberThe interior of apartment 33D, which sold for $29 million in July 2013.8. 15CPW has also been nicknamed "hedgie hive," with residents representing some 36 hedge funds. Gross estimates that the aggregate assets managed by hedge funds and boutique investment firms whose executives own or rent at 15CPW amounts to $437 billion.  9. Shortly after stepping down as CEO of Citi, Sandy Weill spent $43.69 million on the biggest apartment at Fifteen. According to a source, he surprised his wife with the penthouse on Valentine's Day.Mike TauberA view of Central Park from 33D.10. Actor Denzel Washington's purchase of a $13 million apartment coincided with a major milestone for the developers — passing the billion-dollar mark in sales. They held a "Billion Dollar Bash" to celebrate, Gross writes. 11. Spanx founder Sara Blakely claimed to be so terrified of heights living in her 37th-floor apartment that she and her husband, Marquis Jet's founder Jesse Itzler, hired a former Navy SEAL to suggest emergency escape plans. Another SEAL later moved in with them to give them cardio workouts, according to Gross.Mike TauberThe library in apartment 33D.12. Russian potash tycoon Dmitry Rybolovlev made headlines when he bought the Weills' penthouse for $88 million in 2011, ostensibly for his 22-year-old daughter. But it wasn't his first offer at Fifteen: Rybolovlev offered $75 million for another penthouse in 2008, but the owner got cold feet and decided not to sell. 13. Speaking of Rybolovlev's record-setting penthouse: According to Gross, aside from a few short stays at the end of 2012, Ekaterina Rybolovleva never used the apartment, preferring to spend time in Monaco.Mike TauberApartment 33D's sprawling living room with incredible views.14. In 2009, 54 people were on Fifteen's payroll, including seven concierges and eight white-gloved lobby attendants. 15. Employees of 15CPW can make bank during "tip season." In 2011, a typical staffer made $22,500 during the holidays, and one employee told Gross he thought the building's resident manager made $600,000 before tips. "House of Outrageous Fortune" is available for purchase here. FREE AppDownload
You can't expect negotiations with French to be like negotations with Americans, and the same holds true for cultures around the world. British linguist Richard D. Lewis charted communication patterns as well as leadership styles and cultural identities in his book, "When Cultures Collide," now in a 2005 third edition. His organization offers classes in cross-cultural communication for big clients ranging from Unilever to BMW. In support of cultural studies, he writes: "By focusing on the cultural roots of national behavior, both in society and business, we can foresee and calculate with a surprising degree of accuracy how others will react to our plans for them, and we can make certain assumptions as to how they will approach us. A working knowledge of the basic traits of other cultures (as well as our own) will minimize unpleasant surprises (culture shock), give us insights in advance, and enable us to interact successfully with nationalities with whom we previously had difficulty." Although cultural generalizations can be overly reductive, Lewis, who speaks ten languages, insists it can be done fairly, writing: "Determining national characteristics is treading a minefield of inaccurate assessment and surprising exception. There is, however, such a thing as a national norm." When meeting with French, be prepared for a vigorous logical debate. When meeting with Americans, expect them to lay all their cards on the table, get upset when there's a disagreement, and resolve as fast as possible with one or both sides making concessions. We'll go over the rest in brief after a selection of communication charts taken with permission from "When Cultures Collide." Below, conversational range is shown with increasing width, obstacles are marked in gray, and cultural traits are noted as well.  crossculture.com As you may surmise, "When Cultures Collide" spends relatively little time on today's emerging markets, which is unfortunate but not surprising since it was originally published in 1996. The book does offer some commentary on Africa, South America, and other places not mentioned here, however, as well as much further commentary on these 25 countries — and we advise anyone interested in international communication to check it out. Let's go over the other diagrams in brief,  paraphrasing and quoting from Lewis: Canadians, compared to Americans, tend to be more low-key and inclined to seek harmony, though they are similarly direct. English tend to avoid confrontation in an understated, mannered, and humorous style that can be powerful or inefficient. Germans rely on logic but "tend to amass more evidence and labor their points more than either the British or the French." Spanish and Italians "regard their languages as instruments of eloquence and they will go up and down the scale at will, pulling out every stop if need be to achieve greater expressiveness." The Nordic countries often have entrenched opinions that they have formulated "in the long dark nights," though they are reasonable conversationalists. Swedes often have the most wide-ranging discussions, Finns tend to value concision, and most Norwegians fall somewhere in between. Swiss tend to be straightforward and unaggressive negotiators, who obtain concessions by expressing confidence in the quality and value of their goods and services. Hungarians value eloquence over logic and are unafraid to talk over each other. Bulgarians may take a circuitous approach to negotiations before seeking a mutually beneficial resolution, which will often be screwed up by bureaucracy. Poles often have a communication style that is "enigmatic, ranging from a matter-of-fact pragmatic style to a wordy, sentimental, romantic approach to any given subject." The Dutch are focused on facts and figures but "are also great talkers and rarely make final decisions without a long 'Dutch' debate, sometimes approaching the danger zone of overanalysis." Chinese tend to be more direct than the Japanese and some other East Asians; however, meetings are principally for information gathering, with the real decisions made elsewhere. Hong Kongers negotiate much more briskly to achieve quick results. Indian English "excels in ambiguity, and such things as truth and appearances are often subject to negotiation." Australians tend to have a loose and frank conversational style. Singaporeans generally take time to build a relationship, after which they can be shrewd negotiators. Koreans tend to be energetic conversationalists who seek to close deals quickly, occasionally stretching the truth. Indonesians tend to be very deferential conversationalists, sometimes to the point of ambiguity. Israelis tend to proceed logically on most issues but emotionally on some. And that's how one respected, well-traveled, and highly multilingual linguist sees the world.
Thomson ReutersThe Herbalife logo is seen on a building housing some of their offices in downtown Los Angeles, CaliforniaBOSTON (Reuters) - Weight loss and nutrition company Herbalife &lt;HLF.N&gt; launched a website on Tuesday that details its business practices and counters claims made by billionaire investor William Ackman that it is running an illegal pyramid scheme. The website represents the latest salvo in a high-stakes battle between Ackman and investor Carl Icahn, who has taken a major stake in Herbalife and will soon control five seats on its 13-member board of directors. Ackman, who runs the $12 billion hedge fund Pershing Square Capital, announced a $1 billion short bet against Herbalife in 2012 and since then has been lobbying lawmakers and regulators to investigate it. He claims Herbalife misleads recruits about how much money they can make buying its products in bulk and selling them, which Herbalife denies. The Federal Trade Commission confirmed it opened a probe this month, but declined to give any details. Herbalife's site, iamherbalife.com, describes Ackman's claims as misleading and features a link to dozens of testimonials from users touting the company's products and how healthy they are after taking them. It adds that there is no guarantee of success as a distributor, contrasting with some of its promotional videos showing distributors riding snowmobiles and horses, talking about their lavish lifestyles and how others can copy them. Herbalife writes on the site that it is a "legitimate multi-level marketing company" focused on selling its shakes and powders to people who want to consume them. It also makes clear that Ackman will make money if Herbalife's share price falls and could lose money if it climbs. The share price has fallen 32 percent since January but has risen 41.78 percent over the last 52 weeks. The site appears to be a direct response to Ackman's own site, factsaboutherbalife.com, launched in 2012, which details Ackman's claims against the company. Herbalife said it is confident that it is in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. It also said it will not comment further about the FTC probe until there are material developments. (Reporting by Svea Herbst-Bayliss; Editing by Richard Valdmanis and Dan Grebler) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jo Yong-HakBerkshire Hathaway Inc's Warren Buffett (C) walks during a visit of TaeguTec in Daegu, about 300 km (189 miles) southeast of Seoul, October 25, 2007.Recently, Warren Buffett called Bitcoin "a mirage" and warned investors to stay away. Today, at the CoinSummit in San Francisco, executives at Andreessen Horowitz, which has invested millions in Bitcoin and plans to invest "hundreds of millions more," responded. First, Marc Andreessen reportedly said Buffett's remarks were an example of "old white men crapping on new technology they don't understand." Here's how Andreessen characterized the comment this afternoon on Twitter. @montemalhotra Actual quote: “Track record of old white men who don’t understand tech crapping on tech they don’t understand still at 100%." This is all per Marketwatch's Saumya Vaishampayan live-blog of the event. Bitcoin prices stand at $584. Disclosure: Marc Andreessen, co-founder of Andreessen Horowitz, is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
ReutersPlug Power shares surged 49% today. “We signed an additional order in North America with a global automaker,” said CEO Andy Marsh to MarketWatch's Sue Chang. Chang's story was published this afternoon right before the stock spiked. According to Chang, an announcement will come in two to three weeks for what she has characterized as a "major deal." Unfortunately, "he declined to elaborate further on specifics," said Chang. Peers FuelCell Energy (FCEL) and Ballard Power Systems (BLDP) jumped 19% and 32%, respectively. Fuel cells take hydrogen and turn it into electricity. Shares of the companies in this industry have been going gangbusters this year. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shamil ZhumatovA car drives with a Russian flag on a road outside the Crimean port city of Feodosia March 24, 2014. Ukraine announced the evacuation of its troops and their families from Crimea on Monday, effectively acknowledging defeat in the face of Russian forces, who stormed one of the last remaining Ukrainian bases on the peninsula. The stock markets ended their two-day losing streak. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoThe streets of Venezuela are dangerous. Since starting last month, protests have turned them into war zones that are certainly no place for a beauty queen. Venezuela's already lost one to the violence. But that doesn't mean Venezuela's army of pageant winners aren't doing their part to show their support for the opposition. Take Miss Universe 2009, Stefania Fernandez Krupij (whose father happens to be from Ukraine). She tweeted out the pictures below to show her solidarity for those demonstrating against Nicolas Maduro's socialist regime. On Tuesday, three members of the Venezuelan Air Force were arrested for conspiring against the government. This is the first time that the government has openly addressed any kind of opposition in the military, which is thought to be tightly controlled by the regime. It's only another reason for Maduro to get angrier and take it out on the people in the streets. So here's Fernandez Kupij's take:   Buena foto..! @StefaniaFKrupij pic.twitter.com/9kNUxxp9aM @StefaniaFKrupij SIENTE TRISTEZA CON LA SITUACIÓN EN VENEZUELA. #MORDAZASENVENEZUELA @fdelrinconCNN @holavzla pic.twitter.com/9wxqo3oRtr FREE AppDownload
Dogecoin FoundationA mock-up of what driver Josh Wise's car could look like at Talladega There's going to be Dogecoin car at the Talladega this May. The Dogecoin community has raised $50,000 to sponsor#98 Josh Wise's Ford at the annual Alabama megarace. "We got the whole car, it's going to be doged out to the limit," Dogecoin Foundation rep Ben Doernberg told BI in an email. From the Dogecoin community's release: The fundraiser began when members of reddit’s NASCAR community identified Josh Wise as an up-and-coming underdog driver in need of a sponsor. 8 days later, he now has the most wow sponsor in the history of NASCAR. "I can't thank the Dogecoin and reddit community enough for the support," said Wise, who drives for Phil Parsons Racing. "To the moon!" Wise, 31, has been Tweeting about the news for the past 48 hours: Amazing! RT @Niklbag: @Josh_Wise the dogecoin community has almost reached its goal. 55 million #dogecoins collected at this point. We are hours away from hitting our http://t.co/GYP1urWHST goal! #dogecoin @Josh_Wise Wow. I have been flying back to Charlotte today and just landed to new that @dogecoin and the @reddit community raised enough $ to sponsor! Just a week ago this was only an idea and now it's a reality. So thankful for all the fans, @reddit community and @dogecoin for doing this<f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008D> FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuya Shino A Tesla Model SNew York League of Conservation Voters President Marcia Bystryn sent an email to supporters Tuesday accusing lawmakers in the state Assembly of trying to "sneak" through a bill that would "kill the electric car by effectively shutting down Tesla."  "Imagine if the state Legislature tried to ban the sale of iPods and other Apple Products from Apple Stores. Ridiculous, right? Well in Albany, where anything is possible, a handful of politicians trying to curry favor with the powerful auto dealers' lobby are advancing a bill that would ban direct sales of automobiles by manufacturers in New York," Bystryn wrote. "Adding insult to injury, while most lawmakers are working feverishly this week to get an on-time budget passed by the March 31 deadline, these cronies of car dealerships are trying to sneak this bill past clean-energy advocates." The bill Bystryn is referring to was sponsored by Democratic Assemblyman David Gantt and is described as dealing with "automobile manufacturers and unfair practices by franchisors." It would ban automakers from selling cars directly to consumers without using franchise dealers. Tesla, which employs a direct sales model, has faced similar bans in other states including New Jersey where the electric car company accused Gov. Chris Christie of making a "backroom deal" with the auto dealers' lobby after the state Motor Vehicle Commission approved a measure prohibiting direct sales on March 11. In New York, Democratic Assemblyman David Buchwald, who represents a district that includes two Tesla stores, has emerged as perhaps the most high-profile opponent of the Assembly bill banning direct auto sales. Last week, Buchwald told Business Insider the bill had moved out of committee and could be brought to the floor for a vote. On Tuesday, Buchwald said he had not seen Bystryn's email, but he was not aware of any attempts to fast track the bill.  "Yesterday, the bill came up as do all new bills that appear on the calendar. It comes up essentially on consent, meaning if no one objects to there being an immediate vote, the bill would be voted on. That's the way the Assembly deals with non-controversial bills. Someone did say this bill should be laid aside meaning it just goes back into regular order," Buchwald explained. Because the direct sales ban was laid aside, Buchwald said he expected it would not be voted on before a "full debate." "That's an important step that the bill was laid aside. It's just a temporary step. It just meant that yesterday it did not come to a vote," said Buchwald. "There's enough reason to think that, when the bill comes to the floor, that there will be opportunity for a full debate. That's very important, but my expectations are that there should be negotiations between the two sides so that, before it ever comes to a vote, I hope that the bill ends up being amended to take into account the concerns that Tesla and others have expressed." Bystryn's email noted the bill was laid aside Monday. However, she said the NYLCV was aware of attempts to get the direct sales ban voted on immediately. "NYLCV’s allies persuaded the Assembly leadership yesterday to slow down this bill for now, but we’ve just learned that its sponsors are trying to sneak it back on the agenda as early as today," Bystryn wrote. Gantt, who sponsored the Assembly Bill, did not respond to a request for comment from Business Insider on Tuesday.  A ban on direct auto sales has also been introduced in the New York State Senate. That bill has not yet been voted out of committee and, as a result cannot come up for a vote. However, if the Assembly bill was passed, Senate leadership would be able to move it to the floor for a vote there. Republican Senator Tom Libous, who sponsored the Senate bill also did not respond to a request for comment from Business Insider.  Lawmakers also could potentially put a direct sales ban in the annual budget, which is due to be approved by the Legislature April 1. If a ban is included in the budget it would be voted on with the rest of the budget items and could not debated separately.  FREE AppDownload
Rees JonesThe Bridge, which was designed by Rees Jones, costs $975,000 for a membership.  The weather might feel miserable right now, but it's spring and that means the fairways will begin to turn green and golf season will be start. Golf is one of the favorite hobbies of the Wall Street crowd, and when it comes to where they play, they'll accept only the best. We have compiled a list of some of the courses where the biggest heavy-hitters on Wall Street like to play.    FREE AppDownload
AP/Susan Walsh The IRS has ruled Bitcoin should be treated as property, not as currency, for tax purposes. According to Bitcoin tax expert Tyson Cross, this will create a significant burden on Bitcoin users, as every transaction they ever make using the digital currency will have to be reported in some way. That would not be the case if it had been ruled a digital currency. "Users will have to track their transactions and determine the amount of their taxable gain each time," he told BI in an email. "It's quite a burden. The rules on taxing foreign currency provide an exception for 'personal transactions' for that very reason. It would be great to have that exception (or something similar) apply to bitcoins as well."  But Cross adds the IRS' guidance may not stand forever. The Treasury Department should now begin developing formal regulations tailored to digital currencies.  "That typically begins with a request for public comments, which was included in the notice," he said. "Tax professionals can then identify issues and advocate possible solutions.  So between now and the issuance of actual regulations (which takes years), there's ample opportunity to shape the tax treatment." The agency says anyone who holds the currency will have to calculate its value from the date it was received to determine whether a gain or loss was realized, and report the result.    If you've done any Bitcoin mining, the fair market value of the virtual currency as of the date of receipt is includible in gross income.  If you pay anyone in Bitcoin, you must file a W-2. The Wall Street Journal's tax guru Laura Saunders has a great explainer on what this all means » Here is the full text of the IRS' detailed Q&amp;A: Q-1:  How is virtual currency treated for federal tax purposes? A-1:  For federal tax purposes, virtual currency is treated as property.  General tax principles applicable to property transactions apply to transactions using virtual currency. Q-2:  Is virtual currency treated as currency for purposes of determining whether a transaction results in foreign currency gain or loss under U.S. federal tax laws? A-2:  No.  Under currently applicable law, virtual currency is not treated as currency that could generate foreign currency gain or loss for U.S. federal tax purposes. Q-3:  Must a taxpayer who receives virtual currency as payment for goods or services include in computing gross income the fair market value of the virtual currency? A-3:  Yes. A taxpayer who receives virtual currency as payment for goods or services must, in computing gross income, include the fair market value of the virtual currency, measured in U.S. dollars, as of the date that the virtual currency was received.  See Publication 525, Taxable and Nontaxable Income, for more information on miscellaneous income from exchanges involving property or services. Q-4:  What is the basis of virtual currency received as payment for goods or services in Q&amp;A-3? A-4:  The basis of virtual currency that a taxpayer receives as payment for goods or services in Q&amp;A-3 is the fair market value of the virtual currency in U.S. dollars as of the date of receipt.  See Publication 551, Basis of Assets, for more information on the computation of basis when property is received for goods or services. Q-5:  How is the fair market value of virtual currency determined? A-5:  For U.S. tax purposes, transactions using virtual currency must be reported in U.S. dollars.  Therefore, taxpayers will be required to determine the fair market value of virtual currency in U.S. dollars as of the date of payment or receipt.  If a virtual currency is listed on an exchange and the exchange rate is established by market supply and demand, the fair market value of the virtual currency is determined by converting the virtual currency into U.S. dollars (or into another real currency which in turn can be converted into U.S. dollars) at the exchange rate, in a reasonable manner that is consistently applied.   Q-6:  Does a taxpayer have gain or loss upon an exchange of virtual currency for other property? A-6:  Yes.  If the fair market value of property received in exchange for virtual currency exceeds the taxpayer’s adjusted basis of the virtual currency, the taxpayer has taxable gain.  The taxpayer has a loss if the fair market value of the property received is less than the adjusted basis of the virtual currency.  See Publication 544, Sales and Other Dispositions of Assets, for information about the tax treatment of sales and exchanges, such as whether a loss is deductible. Q-7:  What type of gain or loss does a taxpayer realize on the sale or exchange of virtual currency? A-7:  The character of the gain or loss generally depends on whether the virtual currency is a capital asset in the hands of the taxpayer.  A taxpayer generally realizes capital gain or loss on the sale or exchange of virtual currency that is a capital asset in the hands of the taxpayer.  For example, stocks, bonds, and other investment property are generally capital assets.  A taxpayer generally realizes ordinary gain or loss on the sale or exchange of virtual currency that is not a capital asset in the hands of the taxpayer.  Inventory and other property held mainly for sale to customers in a trade or business are examples of property that is not a capital asset.  See Publication 544 for more information about capital assets and the character of gain or loss. Q-8:  Does a taxpayer who “mines” virtual currency (for example, uses computer resources to validate Bitcoin transactions and maintain the public Bitcoin transaction ledger) realize gross income upon receipt of the virtual currency resulting from those activities? A-8:  Yes, when a taxpayer successfully “mines” virtual currency, the fair market value of the virtual currency as of the date of receipt is includible in gross income.  See Publication 525, Taxable and Nontaxable Income, for more information on taxable income. Q-9:  Is an individual who “mines” virtual currency as a trade or business subject to self-employment tax on the income derived from those activities? A-9: If a taxpayer’s “mining” of virtual currency constitutes a trade or business, and the “mining” activity is not undertaken by the taxpayer as an employee, the net earnings from self-employment (generally, gross income derived from carrying on a trade or business less allowable deductions) resulting from those activities constitute self-employment income and are subject to the self-employment tax.  See Chapter 10 of Publication 334, Tax Guide for Small Business, for more information on self-employment tax and Publication 535, Business Expenses, for more information on determining whether expenses are from a business activity carried on to make a profit. Q-10:  Does virtual currency received by an independent contractor for performing services constitute self-employment income? A-10:  Yes.  Generally, self-employment income includes all gross income derived by an individual from any trade or business carried on by the individual as other than an employee.  Consequently, the fair market value of virtual currency received for services performed as an independent contractor, measured in U.S. dollars as of the date of receipt, constitutes self-employment income and is subject to the self-employment tax.  See FS-2007-18, April 2007, Business or Hobby? Answer Has Implications for Deductions, for information on determining whether an activity is a business or a hobby. Q-11:  Does virtual currency paid by an employer as remuneration for services constitute wages for employment tax purposes? A-11:  Yes.  Generally, the medium in which remuneration for services is paid is immaterial to the determination of whether the remuneration constitutes wages for employment tax purposes.  Consequently, the fair market value of virtual currency paid as wages is subject to federal income tax withholding, Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) tax, and Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA) tax and must be reported on Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement.  See Publication 15 (Circular E), Employer’s Tax Guide, for information on the withholding, depositing, reporting, and paying of employment taxes. Q-12:  Is a payment made using virtual currency subject to information reporting? A-12:  A payment made using virtual currency is subject to information reporting to the same extent as any other payment made in property.  For example, a person who in the course of a trade or business makes a payment of fixed and determinable income using virtual currency with a value of $600 or more to a U.S. non-exempt recipient in a taxable year is required to report the payment to the IRS and to the payee.  Examples of payments of fixed and determinable income include rent, salaries, wages, premiums, annuities, and compensation.  Q-13:  Is a person who in the course of a trade or business makes a payment using virtual currency worth $600 or more to an independent contractor for performing services required to file an information return with the IRS?  A-13:  Generally, a person who in the course of a trade or business makes a payment of $600 or more in a taxable year to an independent contractor for the performance of services is required to report that payment to the IRS and to the payee on Form 1099-MISC, Miscellaneous Income.  Payments of virtual currency required to be reported on Form 1099-MISC should be reported using the fair market value of the virtual currency in U.S. dollars as of the date of payment.  The payment recipient may have income even if the recipient does not receive a Form 1099-MISC.  See the Instructions to Form 1099-MISC and the General Instructions for Certain Information Returns for more information.  For payments to non-U.S. persons, see Publication 515, Withholding of Tax on Nonresident Aliens and Foreign Entities. Q-14:  Are payments made using virtual currency subject to backup withholding? A-14:  Payments made using virtual currency are subject to backup withholding to the same extent as other payments made in property.  Therefore, payors making reportable payments using virtual currency must solicit a taxpayer identification number (TIN) from the payee.  The payor must backup withhold from the payment if a TIN is not obtained prior to payment or if the payor receives notification from the IRS that backup withholding is required.  See Publication 1281, Backup Withholding for Missing and Incorrect Name/TINs, for more information. Q-15:  Are there IRS information reporting requirements for a person who settles payments made in virtual currency on behalf of merchants that accept virtual currency from their customers? A-15:  Yes, if certain requirements are met.  In general, a third party that contracts with a substantial number of unrelated merchants to settle payments between the merchants and their customers is a third party settlement organization (TPSO).  A TPSO is required to report payments made to a merchant on a Form 1099-K, Payment Card and Third Party Network Transactions, if, for the calendar year, both (1) the number of transactions settled for the merchant exceeds 200, and (2) the gross amount of payments made to the merchant exceeds $20,000.  When completing Boxes 1, 3, and 5a-1 on the Form 1099-K, transactions where  the TPSO settles payments made with virtual currency are aggregated with transactions where the TPSO settles payments made with real currency to determine the total amounts to be reported in those boxes.  When determining whether the transactions are reportable, the value of the virtual currency is the fair market value of the virtual currency in U.S. dollars on the date of payment.  See The Third Party Information Reporting Center, http://www.irs.gov/Tax-Professionals/Third-Party-Reporting-Information-Center, for more information on reporting transactions on Form 1099-K. Q-16:  Will taxpayers be subject to penalties for having treated a virtual currency transaction in a manner that is inconsistent with this notice prior to March 25, 2014? A-16:  Taxpayers may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with tax laws.  For example, underpayments attributable to virtual currency transactions may be subject to penalties, such as accuracy-related penalties under section 6662.  In addition, failure to timely or correctly report virtual currency transactions when required to do so may be subject to information reporting penalties under section 6721 and 6722.  However, penalty relief may be available to taxpayers and persons required to file an information return who are able to establish that the underpayment or failure to properly file information returns is due to reasonable cause.   And here is an additional set of bulleted implications: FREE AppDownload
Linette Lopez, Business InsiderPartiers while out at NYC club stalwart, Cielo, on Friday, March 21, as part of London DJ crew Horsemeat Disco's new monthly residency at the club. New York City is a better place to party than it has been in almost 20 years. That's right. I said it. Call your older cousin who used to party at The Tunnel every night and gives you "man-you-should-have-been-there" stories every time he sees you. Dig out your old pictures of made-up club kids freak dancing at Limelight back in '92. I don't care. Saying the past was better than what we have now is easy. It excuses you from finding killer parties, and New York City has them — more than it's had in a long time. "If I go out and I'm not working the next day, I'm out til 6 or 7 am," said Bruce Tantum, editor of Time Out New York's nightlife section. "There are more illegal options too." (Not that we'd sell them out here.) A brief history lesson for those of you who don't know what the old-timers have been complaining about. It all started with Mayor Giuliani. You wouldn't know it to look at the guy, but he was basically a 19th century school marm when it came to partying. If there was joy, he found it and killed it. Strict cabaret laws made it harder to dance, higher rents made it harder for clubs to find space. That's when bottle service took over NYC clubs. And you probably know about that bottle service stuff: Throw down a couple hundred for a bottle that you can get at your local liquor store for $30, wait in line with a bunch of girls you may or may not have recruited down the street because there are too many guys in your group, kiss a promoter's butt. Get in. Be crowded. Or don't get in, get rejected. At this point in 2014, New York City's club scene has evolved beyond that. DJ culture has created segments of dance music for everyone from your sorority 'woo-girls' in heels and band-aid dresses to your genuine club kids wearing sneakers and tees because they want to get down. "The scene's really diverse now," said Sascha Lewis, CEO of culture site Flavorpill. "You can have a night out where you can hear Questlove play a great hip-hop soul funk set. You can go to Output and hear some dirty techno from Europe ... and you can go to an amazing underground house music party." The list goes on. Don't want to stand in line for a meatpacking club but you want to hear music from Top 40 charting DJs? Fine. Pay a fee and get into Marquee or Pasha, no problem. For the music snobs — the real heads — last year New York City got Output, a 436-person club with one of the best sound systems in the country located in Williamsburg. More recently, Output got a (weirder) little sister in Verboten — a club just down the street that promises much of what Output does: long nights, internationally respected DJs, open parties, and lots of dancing. For the real warriors, there are the sweaty dance parties taming Bushwick, like Bossa Nova Civic Club and Tandem. And what if you want to party at some weird hour? Flavorpill has your back for that. Want a dance party at noon? Go to a Lunch Break party. How about one right after Happy Hour ends at 7 p.m.? Then you should check out The Get Down. Part of the reason for all of this is because the Brooklyn scene grew up. The guys who eight to 10 years ago had just gotten out of college or moved to the city from bubble-wherever have grown up. They have bills to pay, so they've started amazing venues like Brooklyn Bowl. "It lends more legitimacy to the scene than the sweaty one-off parties in warehouses that used to dominate it," said Lewis. "The whole Burning Man meets Brooklyn barrage of before was edgy for what it was, but everyone had to grow up." This isn't to say that the underground scene is dead. Quite the contrary. It's still humming along, throwing bigger, later parties. Yes, sometimes they get busted — but isn't it worth it to see a French kid who doesn't speak a word of English happily dancing on a trampoline next to a do-or-die New Yorker who just drove over with his friends from Bayside, Queens? Like I said, the scene's diverse. For most people, night time is the most free time they have crammed together in one go. Days are often full of drudgery — of phone calls, appointments, and small-time conversation. At night, though, you can go out and find whatever makes you happy. Night belongs to you. That's what makes all this worth reading about in the first place. FREE AppDownload
An apparently tiny rule change at two casinos in Las Vegas will have pretty serious negative consequences for gamblers. USPoker.com reported that the Las Vegas Sands company just changed its payout rules for blackjack at the Venetian and Palazzo casinos in a way that greatly hurts players' chances of coming out ahead. In blackjack, players receive two cards and then decide if they want to "hit" and get more cards, or "stand" and use the cards they already have. The goal is to get a higher score than the dealer, based on the values of the cards, without going over 21. Should you do this, you get a payout of 1-to-1; you win as much money as you bet. A special situation happens when the first two cards dealt are a 10 and an ace (valued at 11), adding up to 21 right away, a situation called a natural blackjack. In this case, the standard payout, and the old rule at the Venetian and Palazzo, is 3-to-2. This means that if someone bets $10, they will win $15 when getting a blackjack. Now, at blackjack tables at the Venetian and Palazzo, the payout for a blackjack has been reduced to 6-to-5; that $10 now just wins $12 instead of $15. This seems like a small change, but it has a pretty serious effect on the game. Natural blackjacks are not completely uncommon; about 1 in 20 hands will come up with a natural 21. The rule change means that the casinos will be paying out quite a bit less money. In terms of the industry, the rule change greatly increases the "house edge." This is how casinos make their money. Games are set up to be slightly unfair to players in the long run, paying out a little bit less in total than what is taken in. The house edge is usually expressed as a percentage. A house edge of 2% for a game means that, on average, for every $100 in bets made by players on that game, the house will pay out $98 to winners and keep $2. Using this handy blackjack house-edge calculator from gambling analysis site Wizard of Odds, we can see what will happen to players at the Venetian and Palazzo under the new rules. Here is the output from the calculator using a fairly standard set of Las Vegas blackjack rules, with the 3-to-2 natural blackjack payout: Wizard of Odds Note that in this case, the house edge — assuming a player is following the strategy that maximizes his or her chances of winning — is just 0.403%, and in a more realistic case where a player makes a few mistakes, the edge is 0.426%. For every $1,000 wagered, the casino will take about $4. Now, we use the same set of rules, but with the 6-to-5 payout: Wizard of Odds This is dramatically worse for the players. The house edge with a perfectly playing gambler is now 1.76%, with a realistic house edge of 1.79%. Now for every $1,000 wagered, the house is taking almost $18 — more than four times as much as with the standard blackjack payout. This makes playing blackjack at the Palazzo and the Venetian a far less attractive proposition. Players have much worse chances of coming out ahead. Fortunately, gamblers in Las Vegas will still be able to find ample casinos that still have the standard payout for a natural blackjack, making the cost of playing far lower.  FREE AppDownload
The rise of the global financial markets has brought both wealth and risk to almost every crevice of the world. "There have been huge fluctuations in asset prices over the past decade," write the analysts at the World Gold Council. "Despite the volatility, financial assets have almost tripled during that period." Here's more: "Currently at a striking US$156tn, the size of financial assets are a multiple of global GDP (Chart 1). This growth has been primarily led by fixed income markets. Between 2000 and 2013, debt markets have grown three-fold, from US$33tn to US$90tn, as a result of ageing demographics in many developed countries, heightened risk aversion, low interest-rate policies and record government spending to boost ailing economies. In particular, outstanding US treasury debt more than doubled from US$4.5tn in 2007 to US$11.9tn in 2013 – a large portion of which is held by foreign investors. At the same time, global stock markets have also grown – at a relatively more modest pace of 35% – from US$49tn in 2000 to US$66tn in 2013, partly driven by economic growth in emerging markets, better prospects for economic recovery in developed markets and an increase in initial public offerings (IPOs)." The analysts note that if you include the market for securitized products, that number climbs from $156 trillion to around $200 trillion. And this doesn't even consider the over-the-counter derivatives market, whose notional value is estimated at around $693 trillion. World Gold Council FREE AppDownload
One of the main goals to achieve during a job interview is to make yourself stand out among other applicants vying for the same position as you. There are an infinite number of ways to represent yourself, so stay away from these cringe-worthy clichés.  Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook   
To sell smokes or not to tell smokes, that is the $2 billion question. In early February CVS Caremark (CVS) became the first national drugstore chain to voluntarily give up selling cigarettes and other tobacco products by October 1st. CVS was the first brick to fall due to mounting pressure coming from 28 state and territory attorney generals. These AGs have not yet threatened any legal action, but the case certainly brings the NYC sugary drinks ban to mind.  In July a court judge struck down Mayor Bloomberg’s proposed ban because of separation of powers, the mayor had no legal right to tell consumers what they could or could not buy. Cigarettes are well documented as being far more detrimental to health than soda, but they are also heavily regulated and come with clear warning labels. But regardless of whether or not the legislature has any actual power or not, the situation still levies immense pressure against the pharmacies.   In addition to CVS the AGs have also targeted Wal-Mart (WMT), Walgreen (WAG), Kroger (KR), Rite Aid (RAD), and SafeWay(SWY) which together represent the top 5 pharmaceutical retailers which also sell tobacco products. The purpose of this note is to discuss whether or not pharmacies should sell tobacco, so Kroger and Safeway which primarily operate as supermarkets will no longer be included in the discussion. Since Walmart sells just about everything in the observable Universe, we will be leaving them out of the conversation as well. Wikipedia  The numbers may have changed a bit since 2010 but for all intents and purposes Walgreen, CVS, and Rite Aid all have similar numbers of stores and otherwise equal branding. CVS jumped on the opportunity to become an industry leader by giving up its cigarette sales and is now benefiting from positive press coverage and generating goodwill from both smokers and nonsmokers alike. REUTERS/Mike SegarA CVS pharmacy is seen in New York City July 28, 2010. CVS Caremark Corp reported lower second-quarter earnings and cut its 2010 profit forecast, hurt by a decline in revenue from its pharmacy services segment, sending its shares down 5 percent.  But that’s not to say this decision doesn’t come without a cost. CVS is expecting its forfeiture of tobacco sales to cost the company’s top line about $2 billion per year. To put things in perspective, according to data from Estimize.com CVS generated a total of $126.955B revenue in the last fiscal year.  While $2billion is a lot of money, kicking the tobacco habit will only lower CVS’s annual sales by only about 1.6%. CVS has taken the first mover advantage and given up a small % of its revenue in exchange for brand differentiation from 2 otherwise identical pharmacy chain commodities. And their move puts Walgreen and Rite Aid in what could be a state of decision making paralysis. From a game theory perspective, this move looks brilliant. If Rite Aid and Walgreen are the only other 2 large pharmacy chains, neither would be wise to be give up their tobacco sales after CVS made the first move.  There are two problems with being the second mover to give up tobacco sales. The first is that much of the positive press and goodwill have already been taken by CVS. The second is that giving up tobacco sales would leave the third pharmacy with the distinct and significant advantage of being the only major pharmacy chain still selling tobacco products.  CVS created a huge chicken game between its competitors. There is a subset of the pharmacy going population that always buys cigarettes at the pharmacy and all of these customers would flock to the last Marlboro Man standing.  There isn’t a strong incentive for either Walgreen or Rite Aid to be the second major pharmacy chain to give up its tobacco sales. Walter Hickey / BI The third possibility is that  both Walgreen and Rite Aid agree to simultaneously surrender tobacco sales. In this situation, all three pharmacies lose, but no one company loses too badly.  Rite Aid and Walgreen could understand the dilemma and collude to make this compromise and mitigate their risk.  There is building political and legal pressure to force pharmacies to give up their cigarette sales and both of the remaining chains could lose brand power if they try to fight the forces that be (even if they win) in plain view. Part of the beauty of our product at Estimize is that if we come together as a community and submit forward looking estimates for the pharmacies, we can get a consensus on how the market believes each of the 3 pharmacies will be affected.  What are your thoughts? Will Walgreen and Rite Aid continue to sell cigarettes or will they give billions of dollars in sales? Will smokers ditch CVS to get a pack while picking up their prescription? Or on the other hand will the health conscious public rally around CVS Caremark.  The beauty of having a public consensus openly available is that if you are confident in your own thesis and think the market’s expectations are wrong about something, you can trade on it and potentially unlock alpha.  Head over to www.estimize.com and submit estimates for CVS, WAG, and RAD to tell us what you think. FREE AppDownload
For the first time in a few days I opened the app Secret, where people can post anonymous confessions. The top two postings were, I think, a pretty good snapshot of the state of angst in New York and San Francisco: REAL ESTATE. Secret   FREE AppDownload
Kyle Stock at BusinessWeek has an article about a new acronym called 'Yummy' which means Young Urban Male, which more and more brands are targeting. It's a funny acronym and everyone is going nuts over it, because frankly it is cringeworthy. But what's really fun is the cover image (which we first saw from Joseph Cotterill) from the HSBC research report that pushed the term. HSBC FREE AppDownload
CNNMoneyJim O'NeillLAGOS (Reuters) - The large, fast-growing emerging market countries dubbed the BRICs and MINTs are still likely to be the most promising investment destinations over the next decade, despite emerging market turbulence, Jim O'Neill, who coined the terms, said. Former Goldman Sachs economist O'Neill came up with the name BRIC in 2001 to group Brazil, Russia, India and China as countries whose growth will shape the world economy in the coming decades. This year, in a series on BBC radio, he championed the MINT group of countries, similarly blessed with fast economic growth and large, young populations - Mexico, Indonesia, Nigeria, Turkey - as the next economic giants after the BRICs. "The BRIC and the MINT countries, if I'm right, over the next decade will ... shape the world economy's development," O'Neill told Reuters on Tuesday on the sidelines of an Africa Finance Corporation conference in Nigeria's commercial hub of Lagos. "And if that's the case, they will be the most successful places in terms of investments too." O'Neill's coining of the BRIC acronym spurred a rash of funds focusing on these countries - a consequence he told Reuters he never intended - but anxiety about emerging markets has triggered a pullback over the past year. BRIC funds held 9 billion euros ($12.41 billion) at the end of last year, from 21 billion euros at end 2010. This has been largely driven by the U.S. Federal Reserve's tapering of its bond-buying program, which exposed how vulnerable frontier and emerging markets can be to hot money. It also has begun to dawn on investors that economic growth does not always mean higher stock market returns, which can be hindered by corporate governance problems or dodgy accounting. "Fed tapering is why the masses are exiting emerging markets but that's because they're all like sheep," O'Neill said. "Greed and fear are close cousins. People are in love with emerging markets one year, next minute they hate them." But O'Neill said two countries that responded to tapering with sound policies - India and Indonesia - had done well. "What the whole episode of the last years shows is that emerging markets can't rely on generous external circumstances being persistent," he said. "You've got to do better." Russia's annexation of Crimea has put it at risk of sanctions. Turkey and Nigeria have been mired in political squabbles that have hurt their currencies. Nigeria has battled to maintain the naira, spending billions of dollars of its oil-earned forex reserves, especially after the president suspended central bank governor Lamido Sanusi last month. Sanusi was an outspoken critic of the government graft. The underperformance of BRICs over the past three years has put many investors off investing by acronyms, but O'Neill said a fairer comparison was to look at the way the BRIC index has outperformed the developed markets since 2000. Global companies had had huge successes by focusing on them. "What is GE &lt;GE.N&gt; other than a BRIC stock? Look at Apple &lt;AAPL.O&gt;: 20 percent of its revenues are fromChina," he said. ($1 = 0.7255 euros) (Editing by Alison Williams) FREE AppDownload
Randall Munroe charts the frequency of 50 events around the world in a recent brilliant xkcd webcomic (recirculated by Cardiff Garcia). You can read a more thorough explanation of the chart here, noting that heartbeats happen 70 times per minute, the U.S. builds a car 8.6 times per minutes, a pet cat kills a mockingbird a shocking 33 times per minute, and more. A version of the Creative Commons-licensed chart appears below: FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderAlthough almost half (48%) of American adults now know what Bitcoin is, just 13% say they would choose to invest in it over gold, according to a new Harris Interactive poll on behalf of Yodlee, a financial software firm. The poll was conducted in December 2013 among 2,039 adults ages 18 and older.  Support for the digital currency was strongest among younger respondents: 20%of 18-34 year-olds who know what Bitcoin is said they would choose to invest in Bitcoin over gold. Thirty-nine percent were not in favor of any government being able to regulate Bitcoin, compared with 28% among 45-54 and 24% among 55-year-olds and older. Other findings: Click here to see the full results » FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Wall Street sign is seen near the New York Stock Exchange(Reuters) - The outcomes of nearly 40 securities arbitration cases dating back more than 15 years and involving some of Wall Street's most well-known brokerages could be compromised because one of the arbitrators who heard them allegedly lied about being a lawyer. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority on Monday confirmed that it removed the arbitrator, James H. Frank, of Santa Barbara, California, from its roster of arbitrators last year. Frank said he was a lawyer and a member of the bar in several states, when in fact, he was not, a FINRA spokeswoman said. The dismissed arbitrator said via email that he was unaware of FINRA's reasons for removing him, other than that it received a complaint about him from a lawyer involved in a case he had arbitrated. The allegations that he lied about being an attorney and bar member are "inaccurate at best," he wrote. Frank claims that he was a "lawyer" - putting the word in quotes - and that the California bar must have lost his records. The case comes to light as advocates for consumers and investors are calling for an end to mandatory arbitration. FINRA, Wall Street's industry-funded watchdog, runs the arbitration forum where brokerages and investors must resolve their disputes. FINRA has been taking steps to improve perceptions of fairness to investors in its arbitration system. It also recently beefed up measures to police its arbitrators. Nonetheless, the latest revelation is likely to be more ammunition for mandatory arbitration critics. It is unclear whether FINRA is required to disclose the alleged misrepresentation to parties involved in the dozens of cases that Frank heard, or whether it has made those disclosures. FINRA declined to comment on that issue. The revelation also raises questions about whether the parties could attempt to overturn some of those decisions in court, lawyers said. An arbitrator who misrepresents himself as being a lawyer is an "obvious serious concern," said Terry Weiss, a lawyer with Greenberg Traurig, LLP in Atlanta, who typically represents brokerages. "That sort of misconduct could be a basis to vacate the final arbitration award if it was brought in a timely manner." But timeliness could be a problem. Parties who want to try to overturn arbitration awards in federal court must typically make the request within 90 days of receiving the arbitration order. It is unclear whether an arbitrator's fraudulent misrepresentations could give petitioners' leeway to take action under federal or state laws. The San Francisco Daily Journal reported Frank's dismissal on Friday. Reuters has since learned that Frank served on securities arbitration panels in 38 cases between 1998 and 2011, according to a disclosure report he filed with FINRA. He was also involved in seven cases at the time of his dismissal. Many of them involved well-known brokerages, including Citigroup Global Markets Inc., a unit of Citigroup, Wells Fargo Advisors, LLC, a unit of Wells Fargo Corp., and Bank of America's Merrill Lynch, according to the report. FINRA reported Frank's alleged misrepresentations to the Los Angeles County District Attorney last year, a spokeswoman said. It is the second serious allegation involving an arbitrator's background to surface in less than a year. FINRA beefed up measures last year to check out arbitrators' backgrounds after it came to light that an arbitrator who heard a case involving Goldman Sachs had been indicted. Frank's situation first came to light in August, 2013, during a hearing in a case against a brokerage involving a variable life insurance policy sold to a 72-year-old woman, according to Benjamin Blakeman, her Los Angeles-based lawyer. Blakeman looked into Frank's background after the hearing. A private investigator he hired concluded that only one person named James Frank was licensed to practice law in California, but he was not the same person as the FINRA arbitrator, according to the investigator's report. FINRA ultimately removed Frank from its roster and appointed another arbitrator to make a decision by reviewing tapes of the proceedings, Blakeman said. The investor lost the case. Frank admitted to Reuters that he was never licensed in New York or Florida, although he indicated to FINRA that he was. Asked why he lied about the Florida license, Frank said: "It's a damn good question and one that I'm having trouble with." He also did not graduate from Los Angeles-based Southwestern Law School, as his FINRA report shows, but instead, "took a bar refresher course there," he said. There was, however, another James H. Frank who did graduate from Southwestern Law School in 1975. "There is no question he is using my credentials. This is not accidental," said James Hamilton Frank of Santa Monica, who graduated from Southwestern Law School in 1975 and has never worked as an arbitrator. He is licensed to practice law, but is now inactive, according to a California bar database. Frank learned of the situation from Blakeman, the lawyer. He has not filed criminal charges against his alleged impersonator, but told the state bar association and the California attorney general's office about the matter, he said. Frank, the former arbitrator, said he was "taken back" by the allegation that he had appropriated the other Frank's background as his own. (Additional reporting by Brian Grow and Todd Wolfe; Editing by Linda Stern and Dan Grebler) FREE AppDownload
Does your Mac seem sluggish? Before you buy extra RAM, watch these hacks on how to improve the speed performance of your computer. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook    
Robert Johnson for Business InsiderNot everyone is benefiting from Silicon Valley's latest tech boom. As rents soar, nearly 55% of Silicon Valley workers do not make the $90,000 necessary to support a family of four in the region. The area has the fifth-largest homeless population in the country, and in the past three years the problem has gotten much worse, according to the latest Silicon Valley Index. After reporting on the homelessness crisis last fall, we returned this month to find more people living on the street around San Francisco and a growing and deteriorating homeless camp in San Jose.
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Since the beginning of the year, food prices have been on a tear. In a new report, Morgan Stanley commodities analysts led by Adam Longson attribute the surge in prices to a number of factors, "from weather (in the case of sugar, soybeans and coffee) to disease (in the case of hogs) to geopolitics (wheat and corn)." The Morgan Stanley analysts don't believe this will continue.  "To date, weather concerns in South America have proven overstated, as evidenced in the recent declines in sugar prices," they say. "Tensions in the FSU do not appear to have disrupted grain shipments, nor do we expect them to going forward, barring further Russian incursions into Ukraine. Even disease pressures in the U.S. hog herd (though very real) should ease as we move into the warmer months." In the report, the analysts break down the main factors driving each agricultural commodity. Their analysis is displayed in the table below. Also of note in addition to the discussion about supply and demand is the "Net Spec Length" column. It shows that speculative positioning in many of these commodities is currently higher than at any time in the last year. Many of these markets are very small relative to those for stocks and bonds, or even other commodities like oil, and the large increase in speculative inflows in 2014 has helped drive prices higher. Bloomberg, Morgan Stanley Commodity Research
YouTubeSherrod Brown argues that big banks get a special advantage on the floor of the Senate.NEW YORK (Reuters) - A landmark study by Federal Reserve economists found that large U.S. banks enjoy a "too-big-to-fail" advantage in financial markets, confirming the suspicions of many Wall Street critics more than five years after the financial crisis. The series of research papers, published on Tuesday by the U.S. central bank's influential New York branch, suggests the biggest and most complex banks benefited even after the financial crisis from lower funding and operating costs compared to smaller firms. The researchers used data through 2009. The biggest banks also, Fed economists found, can take bigger risks than their smaller peers. While the study did not pinpoint the reason big banks borrow more cheaply, Wall Street critics say it is because investors believe the U.S. government would again rescue them in a panic, despite new rules adopted in the wake of the 2007-2009 crisis and aimed at avoiding future bailouts. "The evidence presented in this paper on the additional discount that bond investors offer the largest banks ... is novel and consistent with the idea that investors perceive the largest U.S. banks to be too big to fail," Joao Santos, a vice president at the New York Fed, wrote in a paper on fund-raising by banks, insurance companies and corporations. Fed economists estimated the funding advantage for the five largest banks over smaller peers to be about 0.31 percent, which they said was statistically significant. The Fed said the papers represented the conclusions of their individual authors, not the central bank itself. Banks and Wall Street critics have been at loggerheads for years over whether enough has been done to prevent regulators from bailing out banks in a future crisis. The study could influence regulators as they decide how strict forthcoming rules related to the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform law will be. The financial services industry, eager to avoid more regulation, has argued that Dodd-Frank did its job. The Clearing House, an industry group for the biggest banks, published a study last week that found the difference in funding costs between large and small firms was negligible. But Democratic Senators Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Sherrod Brown of Ohio and other skeptics in Congress repeatedly warn that the nation's biggest banks, such as Bank of America Corp &lt;BAC.N&gt; and JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt;, are still viewed as too integral to the U.S. economy to fail. Brown called The Clearing House study an attempt by banks to "protect the status-quo that requires hardworking taxpayers to pay for their risky activities." The 11 papers published on Tuesday represent an effort by the Fed to join a conversation that still dominates Washington. The New York branch conducts the Fed's trading in financial markets and is its frontline in supervising Wall Street. SOLUTIONS Fed staff wrote in one paper that a greater likelihood of government support leads to more risk-taking at big banks, including impaired lending and net charge-offs. But in another, they cautioned that the solution may not be to impose limits on the size of banks. That could disrupt economies of scale that keep the cost of banking services low for most Americans, they said. They noted that limiting bank holding companies' assets to no more than 4 percent of U.S. gross domestic product, as some have suggested, would increase industry-wide non-interest expenses by $2 billion to $4 billion each quarter. "Limiting the size of banking firms could still be an appropriate policy goal, but only if the benefits of doing so exceeded the attendant reductions in scale efficiencies," researchers and economists Anna Kovner, James Vickery and Lily Zhou wrote. Regulators have shied away from suggestions that they should break up banks, pointing instead to the new rules that require banks to reduce leverage, maintain a supply of assets they could sell quickly, and stop making risky trades with their own money. Officials say they also have made strides to ensure regulators are equipped to resolve big banks in a crisis rather than bail them out. The Dodd-Frank law assigned new powers to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp (FDIC) to allow it to take over and unwind giant failed banks. The FDIC could seize a failing firm, replace its management and wipe out shareholders. Creditors would take a haircut and become the firm's new shareholders. For this plan to work, the FDIC has said holding companies, also known as parent companies, need to issue long-term debt to creditors who could not run away when the firm got into trouble. Fed officials are considering requiring banks to hold minimum amounts of long-term debt, also referred to as 'bail-in' debt. Researchers at the New York Fed backed that idea. "Parent-level bail-in is quick and simple, compared to the alternatives," Joseph Sommer, an assistant vice president at the New York Fed, wrote in a paper titled "Why Bail-In? And How!" "At worst, bail-in creates orderly liquidation." Regulators could link the new requirement to banks' use of risky liabilities such as uninsured deposits, repurchase agreements, or repos, or commercial paper, four New York Fed researchers argued in a separate paper. Relying on those liabilities, which are subject to runs in crises, makes bank failures costly and threatens the stability of financial markets, wrote James McAndrews, head of research at the New York Fed, and three others. If regulators forced banks to offset those liabilities with long-term debt, the firms would have less incentive to use risky funding sources, they said. (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer and Emily Stephenson; Editing by Karey Van Hall and Paul Simao) FREE AppDownload
KingKing Digital Entertainment Plc's colorful "Candy Crush Saga" has gone viral on smartphones worldwide, but the company may struggle to replicate that enthusiasm with its upcoming initial public offering valuing the gaming company at $7.6 billion. The flotation this week will be closely watched in the fast-growing $17 billion mobile gaming industry, which is keen to emerge from the shadow of Zynga Inc, which has lost half its value since its 2011 IPO valued it at $8.9 billion. That may be a struggle for London-based King. While the company has drawn plaudits for catching the mobile gaming wave with the most downloaded free app and becoming the top revenue producer of 2013 on Apple Inc's app store, it relies on its marquee game for three-quarters of its revenue. "The red flag for this IPO is that King's revenues and fortunes are built on one game," Michael Yoshikami, chief executive of Destination Wealth Management, said. "I would be inclined not to invest in stock like this." When upstarts like King and Zynga go public with valuations approaching those of more established players in the tech space, "it's all about when (the tech bubble) is going to pop," he said. Even if King, which was founded in Sweden a decade ago, pulls off a strong debut, the real test will be the stock's staying power in coming weeks and months. King's debut on the Big Board on Wednesday will be closely watched by rivals like Kabam and Kixeye -- known for strategy games like "Kingdoms of Camelot" and "War Commander" -- which are expected to seek market listings or new financing. Investors warn of the dangers of an industry where games like "Draw Something", from Zynga's OMGPop studio that was shut down a year ago, can top the charts and then quickly fizzle. Such worries may have dissuaded others. Rovio, maker of the still-popular Angry Birds franchise, has yet to pursue an offering, for example. While King's revenue skyrocketed over 1,000 percent in 2013 from the prior year, its fourth-quarter revenue declined 3 percent sequentially to $602 million. King said the decline reflected "a decrease in 'Candy Crush Saga' gross bookings," though gross bookings of other games rose. Flickr via EpreditorScreens showing candy crush game.  "Revenue concentration in one game would still be palatable if in fact the game was growing," Sterne Agee analyst Arvind Bhatia said. "Because it's not, that's a double whammy." King, which is offering 22.2 million shares at between $21 and $24 per share, will announce final pricing on Tuesday. It will price shares at eight to nine times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, which is slightly below the average of 10 times EBITDA at which Activision and Electronic Arts are trading, according to Bhatia. The discount "seems fair and an acknowledgment of negative factors," said Bhatia, who has yet to rate King's stock. "Zynga was in denial that its business was declining when it went public. ... Here, the company is giving you information and saying Candy Crush has peaked." WAITING IN THE WINGS Regardless of how King's stock performs, the company will become the barometer for a 7-year old, volatile and fragmented industry. The mobile gaming space until now has seen mainly smaller players like Glu Mobile list in the United States. That may change. Kabam, which expects gross revenue to grow from $360 million last year to $550 million to $650 million in 2014, is weighing an IPO. Other potential IPO candidates like Kixeye are also waiting in the wings. "The King IPO is going to revalidate the gaming space," said Taehoon Kim, chief executive of nWay, a San Francisco-based startup that develops online and mobile games. King's valuation up to $7.6 billion would take it close to top-tier video gaming giants such as Electronic Arts ($9.4 billion) and Activision Blizzard ($14.9 billion). There are signs that King's IPO is already galvanizing investor interest. FunPlus, the China-based company behind "Family Farm," announced a $74 million funding round last week, the gaming industry's largest in recent years. "We're definitely looking for King to prove that gaming companies can build a sustainable business," said Andy Zhong, FunPlus's chief executive. Korea's SundayToz Corp, which went public last year after its color-matching mobile game "AniPang" went viral, acted to do just that. "We were looked at as a one-hit wonder, same as King," SundayToz Chief Executive Kevin Lee said. A sequel, "AniPang 2," launched in January and emerged as the top-grossing iOS and Android game in South Korea in just three months. "People started to then invest in our company and made its market capitalization grow six times." (This story corrects first paragraph to clarify that $7.6 billion represents value of company, not amount to be raised in IPO) (Editing by Edwin Chan, Christian Plumb and Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIndonesian mythology: Wayang glass painting depiction of Bharatayudha battle.The Fed's decision to taper its monthly asset purchase program has been seen as bullish for the dollar, and in turn it has caused emerging market currencies to fall.  In a new report called "The Myth of the great EM currency slump," Societe Generale's Klaus Baader writes that the reaction of different currencies has actually been diverse. "A review of 12 Asia-Pacific currencies reveals that performances over the past two years have been highly diverse and contrary to the notion of a generalized sell-off across emerging markets," writes Baader, looking at Asian currencies. A two-year timeframe shows what happened with these currencies even before the taper talk began in May 2013. Baader refers to three distinct groups within Asian EM currencies.  1. 'The Good' - These currencies appreciated "by a substantial amount" despite the concerns about the Fed taper: the Chinese yuan which appreciated 10% and the South Korean won which appreciated 12% are two examples. "In our view, one key fundamental reason why both currencies have traded so firmly lies in the fact that both economies generate large current account surpluses." 2. 'The indifferent' - These are currencies which didn't see a move of more than 5% on either side in the two years prior to May 2008: the Taiwan dollar, the Hong Kong dollar, the Singapore dollar, the Malaysian ringgit, Thai baht, and Philippine peso. "At least two of these experienced declines starting in Spring 2012: the Philippine peso and the Malaysian ringgit, which reversed their appreciation from the start of 2012."3. 'The Ugly' - These are currencies that have fallen more than 10% since January 2012: the Indian rupee, the Indonesian rupiah, and two developed-market Asian currencies, the Australian dollar and the Japanese yen. Baader calls these the "gruesome foursome." To get a clearer picture, however, Baader turns to a longer-term view going back to January 2008 before the financial crisis kicked off. Looking at short- and medium-term shifts in nominal exchange rates, Baader found a few key things: "Firstly is that changes over the past two years in several cases merely reversed – to a greater or lesser extent – shifts in the opposite direction during the previous four years. This applies to the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen, the Korean won and the Philippine peso (the latter two remaining far weaker than they were in 2008), as well as the Thai baht. Also noteworthy is the medium-term stability of the Malaysian ringgit and the Hong Kong dollar – though the latter is of course pegged to the US dollar. Lastly, what stands out is the persistent and severe weakness of the Indian rupee and the Indonesian rupiah." But inflation also weighs on exchange rates, so in the longer-term, Baader looks at real effective exchange rates (REER). Looking at it this way, for most currencies the difference between the nominal and real exchange rate is "fairly small." The two that stand out are "India and Indonesia, with gaps of 21pp and 18pp, respectively." The nominal exchange rate refers to the price of currency X in terms of currency Y. For instance it would take  more than 60 rupees to buy $1. The REER, however, adjusts for inflation. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
APLyndon Rive, left, and Elon Musk.Elon Musk and his cousin Lyndon Rive have previously warned utilities that they must adapt to growing pressures for renewables or face existential declines. Now their firm, SolarCity, is coming forward with statistics they say show that the utilities are, at best, completely befuddled by the challenge and, at worst, may actively be throwing up obstacles along the path to connecting solar customers to the grid. So far, of the 100 customers who've had units installed at their homes since they went on sale at the end of 2011, just 12 have been hooked into their local grid, SolarCity said. The firm now has a backlog of 500 applications for connections, and has had to stop adding to their queue.   "We're trying to drive down the road, but there’s a roadblock," said SolarCity spokesman Will Craven. "We're not going to drive through a roadblock — we're just waiting for roadblocks to be removed." If certain steps in the installation process are not completed within a given period, SolarCity said, the customer must resubmit his or her application with a new $800 fee. SolarCity is calling this "illegal," arguing the fee itself violates a California statute governing enhancements to distributed solar. For many customers, the delays have dragged on for years. "It's not only arbitrary but punitive," Craven told Business Insider. "We try to be a good partner. We wanted to give utilities the benefit of doubt in the first year — it's a new technology, we wanted to collaborate on how to go about this. But as time has gone on, we realized we may not have a good-faith partner." The most stubborn utility, Craven said, has been Southern California Edison, which is seeking to charge a $2,900 net metering fee on top of other costs it is seeking. That figure approaches a quarter of the cost of the total system cost, according to SolarCity.  The other major California utilities — Pacific Gas and Electric and San Diego Gas &amp; Electric (SDG&amp;E) — are charging only $600 for the net metering cost. SolarCity said it's willing to eat the amount of $600 for now, but is rejecting the $2,900 figure. In a statement, Southern California Edison said it is "working to address many of the complex issues raised by emerging technologies, including the additional costs of these interconnections." Pacific Gas and Electric acknowledged there may have been some delays, but said they would have mostly been customer-specific. It also said it was fully committed to integrating new technologies, and has connected eight residential solar systems to the grid.   "We have been actively working with every customer as quickly as we can," Steve Malnight, Vice President of Customer Energy Solutions at PG&amp;E, told us by phone recently. SDG&amp;E said SolarCity has submitted just two completed applications, and that it is awaiting a third. SolarCity counters that SDG&amp;E has, like the other firms, continually changed its requirements.  "It was only when SDG&amp;E notified us that they were considering charging our customers a monthly standby charge that things ground to a halt — we didn’t want to burden our customers with a charge they hadn’t considered, and that we didn’t believe was legal in the first place," Craven said in a follow-up email to Business Insider. But he said SolarCity would continue to work with SDG&amp;E toward hooking up more customers. California just approved a mandate that utilities must install 1,325 megawatts' worth of electricity storage capacity by the end of 2020. Craven said it is thus even more inexplicable that there are "roadblocks." Joel Eddins, who with his wife and three children live in San Bernardino County, near Los Angeles, said he's been waiting since August 2012 — when he purchased his battery unit — to get his system connected by Southern California Edison. "They’re not very helpful — they just don’t care," Eddins said. "It's like when a kid rides a city bus — if he jumped out in front and the driver decided they didn't feel like picking the person up. I feel like I'm being treated like that as adult." Eddins sent a photo to illustrate the almost comically absurd situation he faces. Southern California Edison has installed two different meters (left) on the side of his house, in addition to his regular home meter, as part of their grid-connection process.  Joel EddinsSouthern California Edison's meters, left, and Joel Eddins' home meter, right. The California Public Utilities Commission directed Business Insider to comments made by its president, Michael R. Peevey, at a recent panel he sat on with Musk and Rive. Peevey expressed sympathy with SolarCity's case.  Craven said the commission should make a final ruling in the coming weeks on net metering costs and application fees. FREE AppDownload
lululemon on FlickrThings are looking up at Lululemon after a tough year.  Last spring, the athletic-attire retailer recalled 17% of its pants for being too sheer. Longtime CEO Christine Day left, and founder Chip Wilson stepped down as chairman after making controversial comments about customers.  Analysts at RBC Capital Markets believe that Lululemon is moving past quality control issues and bad press. The company reports earnings on Thursday.  Here are a few reasons to be optimistic about Lululemon, according to analysts Howard Tubin and Courtney Wilson.  1. The brand is strong. The bank's survey suggests that shoppers are still willing to pay a premium for Lululemon products. Shoppers also indicated that they planned to purchase lots of Lululemon in the future. This indicates that despite growing competition from brands like Under Armour and Athleta, Lululemon's brand is still dominant.  2. Room for growth. Lululemon only has 170 stores, and most are in North America. "We believe the runway for growth remains long and the brand remains under-penetrated," the analysts write. "Given the relatively small store footprint both in the U.S. and outside of North America, we believe store openings will likely continue."  3. Managers in place. Last year, Lululemon's CEO and chief product officer both left. But new CEO Laurent Potdevin has been on the job for several months, and the brand has also hired a new chief product officer. Hiring these important managers will undoubtedly have a positive impact on Lululemon, RBC writes.  4. New assortments. Lululemon has exciting new product offerings that will lure customers to stores. The brand has a new "&amp; Go" line of athletic-inspired casual-wear. This line has been well-received because it is both fashionable and practical.  FREE AppDownload
When investing in a company, you might want to think about something that's built to last. Something that provides a service everyone needs. And while everyone does need to let loose in a while, Hong Kong Nightlife company Magnum Holdings —which owns popular club Magnum — provides us with a lesson on why you probably shouldn't buy stock in a club. Especially a nightclub that has rhinestone encrusted toilets in the stalls. The company went public in January to much fanfare. It touted the fact that revelers file into lines stretching down the street to get inside and that its signature drink is the Jagerbomb.  Investors, apparently, love Jagerbombs and glitzy toilets too — especially retail investors, who represented $5.7 billion of the total $16 billion IPO. Unfortunately on Tuesday the club issued a statement saying that it expected to take a serious hit in terms of profits for the first 11 months up to February 28th, 2014. On that news, Magnum stock is down 19.74%. As the WSJ points out, investors should have been aware that there was risk. In between the disco light, techno beats and bombs bombs bombs, Magnum said in its prospectus that it was quite possible that the club could, frankly, cease to be cool. “The Group’s future success depends in part on its ability to anticipate and respond to the changes in consumer preferences and tastes and other factors that affect the clubbing industry. […] It cannot assure you that its offerings will continue to suit the popular tastes and demands of consumers,” Magnum said in its listing prospectus. For the full story, head to WSJ&gt; FREE AppDownload
The Department of Energy's Energy Information Administration (EIA) data on volume sales is over two months old when it released. The latest numbers, through mid-January, were published yesterday. However, despite the lag, this report offers an interesting perspective on fascinating aspects of the US economy. Gasoline prices and increases in fuel efficiency are important factors, but there are also some significant demographic and cultural dynamics in this data series. Because the sales data are highly volatile with some obvious seasonality, I've added a 12-month moving average (MA) to give a clearer indication of the long-term trends. The latest 12-month MA is 8.2% below the all-time high set in August 2005. We are fractionally above the interim low of 8.3% set in December 2012.     The next chart includes an overlay of real monthly retail gasoline prices, all grades and formulations, adjusted for inflation using the Consumer Price Index. I've shortened the timeline to start with EIA price series, which dates from April 1993. The retail prices are updated weekly, so the price series is the more current of the two.    As we would expect, the rapid rise in gasoline prices in 2008 was accompanied by a significant drop in sales volume. With the official end of the recession in June 2009, sales reversed direction ... slightly. The 12-month MA hit an interim high in November 2010, and then resumed contraction. The moving average for the latest month is about 7.9% below the pre-recession level and 4.8% off the November 2010 interim high. For some historical context, the latest data point is a level first achieved over fifteen years ago, in May 1998. Some of the shrinkage in sales can be attributed to more fuel-efficient cars. But that presumably would be minor over shorter time frames and would be offset to some extent by population growth. For some specifics on fuel efficiency, see the Eco-Driving Index for new vehicles developed by the University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute. However, if we look at Edmunds.com for data on the top 10 best-selling vehicles, energy efficiency doesn't seem to be a key factor, to judge from the percentage of pickup trucks and of SUVs. While on the topic of fuel-efficiency on gasoline sales, I continue to recommend a reading of the Polk survey report that made the rounds in April of last year. While the selection of hybrid models in the U.S. has more than doubled since 2007, only 35 percent of hybrid vehicle owners choose to purchase a hybrid again when returning to market in 2011, according to recent analysis by Polk (See Table A). If repurchase behavior among the high volume audience of Toyota Prius owners isn't factored in, hybrid loyalty drops to under 25 percent. [Full Report] Average Daily Volume Sales Per Capita   The next chart adjusts the 12-month MA of sales volume for population growth based on the monthly data for Civilian Non-Institutional Population over age 16 from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, via the St. Louis FRED repository. What we see here is that gasoline sales on a per-capita basis are 8.0% lower than it was at the end of the Great Recession. The gallons-per-capita series includes the complete EIA data, but since I'm using the 12-month MA, the red line starts in 1984. We see the double peak in March 1989 (the all-time high) and August 1990. The latest per-capita daily average is 21.1% below the 1989 high.    What does this analysis suggest about the state of the economy? From an official standpoint, the Great Recession ended 54 months before the most recent gasoline sales monthly data point. But if we want a simple confirmation that the economy is in recovery, gasoline sales continues to be the wrong place to look. In addition to improvements in fuel efficiency, the decline in gasoline consumption is attributable in large part to some powerful secular changes in US demographics and cultural in general: As I've continued to observe, we are living in interesting times. FREE AppDownload
Last week one of Business Insider's contributors, Bankers Anonymous, posted a neat picture of a Youngstown, Ohio, steelworker's tax return from the 1940s. You guys loved it, and we loved it, and apparently Twitter also loved it because @topaperpour kindly tweeted us an even older tax form — one from the Midwest in 1911. Check out the nostalgia below. Twitter, @topaperpour  Twitter, @topaperpour FREE AppDownload
Google ImagesHere we go again. Thieves have made off with approximately 1.55 million in a digital currency called BlackCoin, worth 120 Bitcoin, or about $70,000, from exchange site Cryptorush, according to a post on Bitcointalk.org. Cryptorush rep "linkandzelda" said the thieves took advantage of a glitch at the exchange involving accounts holding BlackCoin, a proof-of digital currency, he said. User balances at the exchange were accidentally inflated to an extra 22 million coins, allowing them to withdraw more than they had.  "We'll post more when we know how we can pay back affected users or get some compensation for this massive massive loss," linkandzelda wrote. "100 BTC doesn't just come out of thin air, so please be patient while we make this right." CryptoRush customers have been quick to blame CryptoRush for the glitch. "The only chance this exchange has any chance now at surviving... is to make a public statement of apology AND return all funds (even if using money earned from the trades)," wrote Bitcointalk user "mybougsname".  "It would be tedious, but worthwhile to manually go thru the logs and see who withdrew to many coins." Cryptorush recently received a $500,000 investment.  So far, Bitcoin prices haven't changed much on the news, and now stand at $579. (Spotted by CryptoCoinNews) FREE AppDownload
Richmond FedThe Richmond Fed just published the results of its regional manufacturing survey, and the numbers don't look good. The headline index fell to -7 in March from -6 in February. Economists estimates the headline would jump to 4. "Shipments and the volume of new orders declined," reported the Richmond Fed. "Manufacturing employment remained flat, while the average workweek edged up and wages rose moderately." More from the Fed: Manufacturers’ expectations moved back in line with January’s expectations. A participant commented that weather has “wreaked havoc” on demand for the past two months, but he anticipated that his company will be very busy once the weather improves. Compared to last month’s outlook, shipments and new orders were expected to grow more quickly. Additionally, manufacturers looked for faster growth in backlogs and capacity utilization. Firms anticipated slightly longer vendor lead times in the six months ahead. Survey participants also expected faster growth in the number of employees along with strong growth in wages and a pickup in the average workweek. Raw materials and finished goods prices rose at a slower pace in March compared to last month. Manufacturers expected faster growth in prices paid and prices received over the next six months, although their outlook was below February’s expectations. Everyone's still trying to figure out how much of the winter economic slowdown was caused by the unusually harsh winter. The hope is that any weakness in December through February will mean additional strength in March and the remainder of Spring. Richmond Fed FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoNew home sales fell 3.3% month-over-month in February, to an annualized pace of 440,000. This was better than expectations for a 4.9% fall to an annualized pace of 445,000.  January's number however saw a significant downward revision to reflect a 3.2% rise to an annualized pace of 455,000 units. This compares with an initial reading of a 9.6% MoM rise to an annualized pace of 468,000. The inventory of homes climbed to 5.2 months supply at the current sales pace. Meanwhile, the median sales price climbed to $261,800, from $260,800 the previous month. Homebuilder confidence has also been weakening. Homebuilders cited the severe winter and difficulties in finding lots and labor for declining confidence. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) The results of the Conference Board's March Consumer Confidence survey are out. The report's headline index unexpectedly jumped to 82.3 in March from February's upwardly-revised 78.3 reading, marking the highest level since January 2008. Economists predicted a much more modest gain to 78.5. Below is the full text of the release from the Conference Board. ------------------------------- 25 Mar. 2014 The Conference Board Consumer Confidence Index®, which had decreased in February, improved in March. The Index now stands at 82.3 (1985=100), up from 78.3 in February. The Present Situation Index edged down to 80.4 from 81.0, while the Expectations Index increased to 83.5 from 76.5. The monthly Consumer Confidence Survey®, based on a probability-design random sample, is conducted for The Conference Board by Nielsen, a leading global provider of information and analytics around what consumers buy and watch. The cutoff date for the preliminary results was March 14. “Consumer confidence improved in March, as expectations for the short-term outlook bounced back from February’s decline,” said Lynn Franco, Director of Economic Indicators at The Conference Board. “While consumers were moderately more upbeat about future job prospects and the overall economy, they were less optimistic about income growth. The Present Situation index, which had been on an upward trend for the past four months, was relatively unchanged in March. Overall, consumers expect the economy to continue improving and believe it may even pick up a little steam in the months ahead.” Consumers’ assessment of current conditions was little changed in March. Those claiming business conditions are “good” increased to 22.9 percent from 21.2 percent; however, those claiming business conditions are “bad” also rose, to 23.2 percent from 22.0 percent. Consumers’ appraisal of the labor market was relatively unchanged. Those claiming jobs are “plentiful” decreased marginally to 13.1 percent from 13.4 percent, while those saying jobs are “hard to get” increased slightly to 33.0 percent from 32.4 percent. Consumers’ expectations, which fell last month, rebounded in March. The percentage of consumers expecting business conditions to improve over the next six months increased to 18.1 percent from 17.3 percent, while those anticipating business conditions to worsen declined to 10.2 percent from 13.6 percent. Consumers’ outlook for the labor market was also moderately more optimistic. Those expecting more jobs in the months ahead edged up to 13.9 percent from 13.7 percent, while those expecting fewer jobs fell to 18.0 percent from 20.9 percent. The proportion of consumers expecting their incomes to grow declined to 14.9 from 15.8 percent, but those anticipating a decline in their incomes also decreased, to 12.1 percent from 13.4 percent. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Gary CameronMichael Cavanagh Michael "Mike" Cavanagh, who was seen as a potential successor to Jamie Dimon, is leaving JPMorgan Chase for private equity giant Carlyle Group, the bank said in a press release. Cavanagh, 48, was the co-CEO of JPMorgan's investment bank. He's been tapped for the new position of co-president of Carlyle, which is also a client of JPMorgan's.  "I have worked at JPMorgan Chase for almost my entire professional life, and it was not without a lot of soul searching that I decided it was time for me to take my career in a different direction," Cavanagh said in a statement. He's been a long-time Dimon deputy. They worked together at Bank One before JPMorgan.   "I have worked with Mike Cavanagh for more than 20 years," Dimon said in a statement. "He's a highly talented executive and has been an integral part of our management team.... He’s also a special person and we wish him well in his choice to take on a new challenge. While we would prefer he stay at the firm, we are glad he’s going to a valued client in Carlyle. I know the whole Operating Committee joins me in thanking him for his years of service to our firm."   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike BlakeThe January S&amp;P/Case-Shiller Home Price Index is out. The 20-city index advanced 0.85% in January following a 0.74% rise in December — above the 0.6% gain expected by market economists. Year over year, however, prices were up only 13.24%, down from 13.38% in December. Economists expected the year-over-year change to clock in at 13.34%. FREE AppDownload
LONDON (Reuters) - A retired Deutsche Bank &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt; executive, William Broeksmit, killed himself after leaving several suicide notes for family and friends, an inquest in London ruled on Tuesday. Broeksmit, 58, who had close ties to the bank's co-Chief Executive Anshu Jain, was found hanging in January at his Kensington home by his wife and pronounced dead at the scene. The inquest at London's High Court heard Broeksmit retired from the bank in February 2013 but written medical evidence said he was "very anxious" that summer about authorities investigating areas of banking where he had worked, without giving further details. However the last time he was known to have seen a doctor, in December 2013, he had not appeared anxious or depressed, the hearing was told, and a psychologist said Broeksmit recognized his concerns were due to a state of anxiety rather than reality. Coroner Fiona Wilcox said there was "clear suicidal intent" in the notes but did not give details of their content. "These notes do provide evidence of intention," Wilcox said. "I am therefore satisfied ... that William Broeksmit did take his own life." Deutsche Bank said in a statement after the inquest: "Bill was not under suspicion of wrongdoing in any matter." Broeksmit, a U.S. national, was a key founder of Deutsche's investment bank and one many bankers, including Jain, who joined Germany's flagship lender from Merrill Lynch in the 1990s when Deutsche launched plans to compete on Wall Street. As head of risk and capital optimization, he was also a principal player in Deutsche's efforts to unwind its riskier positions and to reduce the size of its balance sheet in the wake of the global financial crisis. Jain sought to have Broeksmit join the management board as head of risk management in 2012 but, in a major setback for both men, German regulator Bafin blocked the appointment, saying Broeksmit lacked experience leading large teams. None of his family was present for the inquest but his lawyer handed a note from his wife, Alla Broeksmit, to reporters afterwards. "Bill was a loving husband and devoted father. The children and I are heartbroken by our loss," his wife said. (Reporting by Costas Pitas; Editing by Alison Williams) FREE AppDownload
Societe Generale, Albert EdwardsFor years now, many economists have been predicting that a business investment recovery would come, spurring corporate profits, GDP growth, jobs, and all sorts of wonderful things for the economy. However, Albert Edwards and his colleagues at Societe Generale warn that it's not coming. "The bulls will point out, quite correctly, that on many key measures the profits situation in the US looks quite healthy," wrote Edwards in a new research note to clients. "But experience shows us that it is not the level of profits, nor the rate of profitability (ROE), nor the level of margins that drives the investment cycle. Instead it is the rate of growth of profits that should be monitored." Edwards' seven-page note leads with the chart above showing profit growth and business investment growth. "Over the years we have found that profits are probably the single most important leading indicator of recession," he said. "A decline in profits is inevitably followed by recession shortly thereafter as investment, the most volatile of all GDP components, is cut." Edwards acknowledges that at 13% of GDP, business investment is a pretty small component of the economy. But... "...swings in this component of business spend can often determine the overall trajectory for the economy (the argument is even stronger if one includes business inventories as we do in these charts). Corporate behaviour can often dominate the economic cycle even ignoring swings in employment and the subsequent impact on consumption expenditures. Indeed in an accounting sense, recessions can be said to have been ‘fully explained’ by downturns in business investment. We update a chart (below) we showed recently with more back-data that clearly demonstrates that when there is a recession and GDP declines, the contribution of business investment FULLY accounts for that recession. Put another way, without the corporate sector responding to declining profits by cutting investment, soft- landings would be much more frequent occurrences!" Here's the chart Edwards is referring to. Societe Generale, Albert EdwardsChart 11 "This cycle is already long in the tooth at 56 months and the resultant slowing productivity growth is beginning to impact profits adversely," said Edwards. "While profits growth is so anaemic, any adverse shock such as an Asian currency devaluation that we have discussed previously (including both Japan and China), will be enough to deepen that profits recession and send US investment expenditure into decline. While most equity investors appear to believe that the US economy has reached escape velocity, a recession carries a far higher risk than the market supposes." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/St Croix Sherriff/HandoutA Wisconsin State Patrol police officer looks through the wreck of a 2005 Chevy Cobalt in St Croix County, Wisconsin in this October 24, 2006 file photo.G.M. told families of victims who'd died driving now-recalled models that it did not have evidence of a defect in the cars, even when it did, the New York Times reports. GM has since recalled 3.1 million units covering five different models over the past two months shown to have faulty ignition switches. The Times has linked the vehicles to more than 300 deaths over 10 years. "At a meeting on May 15, 2009, they learned that data in the black boxes of Chevrolet Cobalts confirmed a potentially fatal defect existed in hundreds of thousands of cars," the Times' Hilary Stout, Bill Vlasic, Danielle Ivory and Rebecca Ruiz write.  Yet the engineers sat on the results. A New York Times review of 19...accidents — where victims were identified through interviews with survivors, family members, lawyers and law enforcement officials — found that G.M. pushed back against families in at least two of the accidents, and reached settlements that required the victims to keep the discussions confidential. In one case, the Times says, the auto giant threatened to come after a family for reimbursement of legal fees if they did not withdraw their lawsuit. Another time the firm sent a letter stating there was no basis for their claims. Read the full report at NYTimes.com » FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCars drive on the Three Ring Road amid the heavy haze in BeijingBEIJING (Reuters) - China's eastern city of Hangzhou will start restricting car sales from Wednesday, joining major cities, including Shanghai and Beijing, in the fight against snarling traffic and heavy smog in the world's largest automobile market. The Hangzhou government said on Tuesday the curbs would take effect while it canvassed public opinion on details of the move. It is proposing limiting sales to 80,000 units every 12 months, to be split evenly over that period, the government said on the city's official website (www.hangzhou.gov.cn). A final decision on details of the curbs will be released at the end of April, the government added. China's leaders have declared a "war" on pollution, as they seeks to calm public ire over water, air and soil pollution that often reaches levels experts consider hazardous. This has seen an increasing number of Chinese cities limit sales of gasoline vehicles, a key contributor to air pollution. The trend is pushing carmakers to shift their focus towards smaller cities and speed the development of electric vehicles, which are free from similar curbs. The Hangzhou government said the decision aimed to tackle both pollution and traffic jams. Hangzhou, capital of the prosperous province of Zhejiang, is a tourist attraction best known in China for its lake, but its luster has been dulled in recent years by a recurrent smog problem. Five Chinese cities -- Shanghai, Beijing, Tianjin, Guangzhou and Guiyang -- have already put curbs on car sales and more are expected to follow. Some cities use an auction system to allocate number plates while others use a combination of lotteries and auctions. (Reporting by Ben Blanchard and Wang Lan, and Samuel Shen and Adam Jourdan in SHANGHAI) FREE AppDownload
On Sept. 30, 2013, four BASE jumpers took to the peak of 1 World Trade Center and leaped off the building, flying over some of the city before pulling parachutes and landing in the streets of Manhattan. Now Andrew Rossig, James Brady, Marko Markovich, and Kyle Hartwell are facing charges including burglary, reports NBC New York.  Helmet-cam footage of the jump was posted to YouTube yesterday.  Here's one of the men right as he jumps off 1 World Trade: YouTube Helmet cams captured the view of the city from the perspective of the jumpers: YouTube And you can see what it looks like to land: YouTube Here's the full video:   FREE AppDownload

REUTERS/Nigel MarpleAn actor in police costume mock-arrests Megaupload founder Kim Dotcom (L) as he launches his new file sharing site "Mega" in Auckland January 20, 2013.WELLINGTON (Reuters) - Kim Dotcom, one of the world's most wanted cyber fugitives, on Tuesday gloated over a deal that will see a cloud storage firm he founded while on bail listing on the New Zealand stock exchange and valued on paper at NZ$210 million ($179 million). The flashy internet mogul, who also goes by the name Kim Schmitz, is fighting a bid by U.S. authorities to extradite him from his lavish estate in New Zealand to face online piracy charges over the now closed file sharing site Megaupload. The New Zealand government in early 2012 arrested Dotcom at his mansion near Auckland in a SWAT-style raid requested by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Dotcom is free on bail as he fights extradition although his movements are restricted. After a reverse takeover deal was announced between cloud storage company Mega Ltd and TRS, an inactive local investment firm, Dotcom tweeted: "Indicted. Raided. On Bail. All assets frozen without trial. But we don't cry ourselves to sleep. We built #Mega from 0 into a $210m company." TRS said in a statement to the New Zealand stock exchange it had a conditional agreement to buy Mega Ltd through a share issue to Mega's shareholders, which will result in them holding 99 percent of TRS. The plan, expected to be completed by the end of May, would see the issue of 700 million new TRS shares at 30 NZ cents each, after which TRS's current 1.1 billion shares would be reduced to about 7 million. Mega Ltd, launched in 2013 by Dotcom and several other people involved in Megaupload, offers encrypted, cloud-based data storage. It claims about 7 million registered users. New Zealand company records show Mega Ltd's shareholders include Dotcom's wife, through a trust, with a 26 percent stake. Dotcom is not listed as a shareholder nor a director, but on the Mega website he is called principal strategist. Dotcom, a large, ebullient German national with New Zealand residency, could not be reached for comment. He and three colleagues from Megaupload were arrested in 2012 on U.S. charges of online piracy, money laundering and racketeering. The four men have been battling New Zealand and U.S. federal authorities through the courts since over access to funds, admissibility and disclosure of evidence, and the legality of search warrants. An extradition hearing is tentatively scheduled for July. U.S. authorities allege Megaupload cost film studios and record companies more than $500 million and generated more than $175 million by encouraging paying users to store and share copyrighted material, such as movies and TV shows. Dotcom says Megaupload was merely an online warehouse and should not be held accountable if stored content was obtained illegally. Mega Ltd chief executive Stephen Hall said Mega had planned to list but had chosen the back-door route because it was cost effective and efficient, adding there was no concern it would get embroiled in Dotcom's extradition battle. "We don't think so, this has nothing to do with Megaupload, it's a completely separate legal entity, it's not a worry," Hall told Reuters. Hall also said he did not expect Mega Ltd's shareholders to sell once the deal was completed. The company did not need extra funds at this stage, and was supported by investors, some of whom were associates of Dotcom, Hall said. Shares in the rarely-traded TRS perked up after the announcement, rising 900 percent to one NZ cent - giving it a market capitalization of about NZ$11 million. Its major shareholder, Melbourne-based businessman Paul Choiselat, has his own problems in Australia. The Australian Securities and Investments Commission in December charged Choiselat with market manipulation and concealing share interests. Choiselat declined to comment on the charges, but said the investigation had nothing to do with the Mega Ltd listing. He told Reuters he had never met Dotcom nor had any contact with Mega Ltd. "The board has negotiated this transaction. I'll review the shareholder documents and decide how to vote," he said. Dotcom remains at his rented sprawling estate outside Auckland, valued at an estimated at NZ$30 million, with its servants' wing, hedge maze, and life-size statues of giraffes and a rhinoceros in the grounds. He has cut a political and legal swathe through New Zealand since he landed in 2010, including forcing an apology from Prime Minister John Key for the illegal surveillance of Dotcom by a government spy agency. Dotcom is also behind the fledgling Internet political party, which is planning to contest a general election in September. ($1 = 1.1707 New Zealand dollars) (Editing by Dean Yates) FREE AppDownload
We get a ton of housing data this morning.  In his preview, Trulia chief economist Jed Kolko lists the most overvalued and undervalued housing markets, which is a measure of current price levels against fundamentals like incomes, rents, and historical price paths. Here are the markets getting close to overheating:Trulia And here are those underperforming. Detroit and Chicago both had double-digit price gains last year. Detroit, of course, remains mired in the largest municipal bankruptcy case in U.S. history. Trulia And for good measure, here's their bubble chart for the 100 largest metros. Starting to creep higher. Trulia FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Scott OlsonTraders on the floor of the Chicago Board of Trade pose for a picture prior to the opening of the new trading floor February 18, 1997.Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus has today's trader chat: Good Morning!   US Futures are slightly higher this AM, with large gains overseas providing a tailwind for risk.   In Europe, the DAX added over 1% in decent volume, despite the EU fins remaining a source of funds and being unch on the session.   We have a bounce of Ukraine sentiment, with Moscow’s Micex up 1%, Russian CDS falling fast, and seeing a nice bounce in Ukraine’s FX.   Over in Asia, the Nikkei lost 30bp in heavy trading, as Japanese exporters were hit on a stronger Yen.   China’s markets were mixed, with Shanghai gaining small as hopes increase for stimulus from the PBOC.    India’s Sensex remains near all-time highs into their elections, while Aussie’s market was quiet, with the miners mixed despite higher metal prices.    We will be watching to see if the rotation from Momentum continues today – we are seeing a pre-market bounce in some Alt-Energy, Biotech and Internet names early, including TSLA, FB and TWTR.  Financials were clear recipients of those momentum flows yesterday.  While the S&amp;P 500 has averaged a decline of 0.41% on Mondays this year, with only 3 up days out of 10, On the 11 Tuesdays that have been open for trading this year, the S&amp;P has averaged a gain of 0.56%, with positive returns 9 out of 11 times We continue to watch the rolling of duration in Treasuries, with the 2YY resting on 6M highs and 10YY on 1 week lows and nearing a 200dma test as Fed fund futures are fully pricing in the chance of a rate rise by August 2015.   The € has given up much of y’days surge against the $, as German business morale weakened in the face of the Ukraine tensions – driving the DXY back over 80, causing a headwind for commodities.   That said, Copper has gained over 1%, rallying from a 4Y low as Chinese liquidation subsides and Anglo shuts production at a mine in Chile - Gold is bouncing from 1M low, and Palladium remains at a 2+Y high on concerns of Russian supply cuts.   The Energy complex is higher, with Natty jumping 1% into Thursday’s expiry – and WTI gaining into inventory data despite the “indefinite” closure of a major shipping channel outside of Houston.   Schedule Catalysts today include Case-Shiller at 9, Consumer Confidence, Richmond Fed and Richmond Fed at 10, a small POMO at 11, ECB President Mario Draghi speaks at 12, a $32B 2Y auction at 1, and Fed's Lockhart Speaks on the Economy at 4:30.   Also keep an eye on Brazil’s Bond Auction at 1, as S&amp;P downgraded them to one notch above junk overnight. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerSchoolgirls pray next to a sand art sculpture created by Indian sand artist Sudarshan Patnaik to pay tribute to the passengers and crew onboard the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, on a beach in Puri, in the eastern Indian state of Odisha, March 25, 2014. China bank panic. Customers at a small bank north of Shanghai rushed to withdraw their funds after rumors spread about its solvency. "The case highlights the urgency of plans to implement a deposit insurance system to protect investors' deposits in case of bank insolvency, given that Chinese are growing increasingly nervous about the impact that slowing economic growth will have on the viability of financial institutions," Reuters said. Bond fraud? The SEC is investigating whether a spate of new, complicated bond deals are creating new opportunities for fraud, the Wall Street Journal's Jean Eaglesham and Katy Burne report. "SEC investigators are now homing in on a postcrisis resurgence in a similar type of deal called a collateralized loan obligation, or CLO. This is an investment based on pools of loans that financial firms make to companies with lower credit ratings that are sliced up, packaged and sold to deep-pocketed investors." Box IPO. The "Dropbox for businesses" cloud storage company filed for an IPO. The firm says it had annual revenues of $124 million. In December the company was reported to be worth $2 billion.  UK inflation falls. Prices  hit grew at the slowest rate since 2009, mainly due to a decline in gas prices. Headline yearly inflation last month slipped to 1.7% from 1.9% in January, broadly in line with analyst expectations but below the BOE's target of 2%. But home prices jumped most since 2010.  Busy day in housing data. First up at 9 a.m. are both FHFA and Case-Shiller home prices. Growth in both are expected to have slowed a bit to 0.6% versus 0.8% prior. At 10 a.m. we get new home sales, also expected to have come down a bit, to 445,000 from 468,000. Consumer confidence. Expectations are for a slight uptick to 78.5 from 78.1 prior. The data hits at 10 a.m. Richmond Fed. Finally at 10 a.m. we also get the Richmond Fed's latest survey of business activity, expected to have improved to 4 from -6. Markets. Asian stocks fell, while European stocks climbed. U.S. futures were up. Earnings. Walgreen's and Carnival Cruise Lines report this morning.   Obama to end NSA bulk data collection. In the wake of a meeting with tech honchos including Mark Zuckerberg, President Obama is calling for the winding down of the NSA's bulk data collection program. "The bulk records would stay in the hands of phone companies, which would not be required to retain the data for any longer than they normally would," the New York Times' Charlie Savage reports. "And the N.S.A. could obtain specific records only with permission from a judge, using a new kind of court order." FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockGoldman's Jari Stehn offers for reasons to believe in a short-term growth pickup. Here they are: The economic dataflow has weakened notably in recent months and our Current Activity Indicator (CAI) has declined one percentage point since the fall. But we see four reasons for a pickup in the dataflow in coming months: (1) data surprises appear to have bottomed; (2) weather normalization should boost growth; (3) financial conditions remain supportive; and (4) leading indicators for capital spending have picked up. We therefore expect that activity should bounce back and continue to expect 3%+ growth for the remainder of 2014. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Matt Rourke, FileA judge placed the head of a Mexican oil services firm under house arrest due to suspicion that his company defrauded US bank Citigroup in a multi-million-dollar case. Amado Yanez, chief executive and majority shareholder of Oceanografia, will be held for up to 40 days as prosecutors determine what charges he might face, Attorney General Jesus Murillo Karam told a news conference. Citigroup said late last month that it was slashing $235 million from its 2013 financial results due to the fraud committed against its Mexican subsidiary, Banamex. The US banking group said up to $400 million of $585 million in credit given to Oceanografia by Banamex was based on bogus invoices from the energy firm, which is a major supplier of Mexico's state-run oil monopoly Pemex. The scandal prompted the Mexican government to take control of Oceanografia, a company that employs 11,000 people and has a fleet of around 70 ships. The government has also taken over a first division football team owned by Yanez, the White Roosters of Queretaro, as part of the investigation. Murillo Karam defended the decision to detain Yanez for up to 40 days without charges, a practice known as "arraigo" that has been criticized by human rights groups. The procedure allows prosecutors to renew the arrest for another 40 days for a total of 80 as they investigate a case. Murillo Karam said the government has been against abusing the use of "arraigos" but that this was a case where "superior interests" must be protected. In this case, he said, the authorities needed to place Yanez under house arrest to gather evidence as well as ensure that the government can protect Oceanografia's 11,000 employees and top client, Pemex. "These are the reasons why we have decided to use 'arraigo' as an extraordinary measure in this occasion," Murillo Karam said. "As we have before since we have been in the attorney general's office, solely to protect superior interests." The attorney general also denied that there was any political motivations behind the investigation. The conservative National Action Party (PAN) has walked out of negotiations in Congress on legislation to implement energy reform, accusing President Enrique Pena Nieto's government of using the Oceanografia scandal to get its way. Oceanografia was already a top supplier of Pemex during the 12 years that the PAN held the presidency from 2000 to 2012.   Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
I've written frequently about my concern about today's stock prices. I believe stocks are now so expensive that they will likely deliver crappy performance over the next decade. I also believe that there is a decent chance of a 40%-to-50% crash in the next couple of years. This view is based almost entirely on valuation: According to most historically valid and cyclically adjusted pricing measures, stocks are at least 50% overvalued, and I don't think it will end up being "different this time." I described the facts underlying this view in detail here. I have also said that despite this concern about stock prices, I am not selling my stocks (not yet, anyway). One reason I'm not selling is that valuation is almost useless as a timing indicator: Stocks could go a lot higher before they drop, especially if the Fed keeps frantically pumping money into Wall Street. Another reason I am not selling is that no other major asset classes are attractively priced either, so there's nothing else I want to buy. Cash yields nothing and bonds yield almost nothing, and the latter contain significant embedded risk from inflation. So the investment opportunities for financial assets these days are just plain lousy. How lousy? According to data and projections compiled by one analyst, John Hussman of the Hussman Funds*, projected financial performance for a diversified portfolio of stocks, government bonds, corporate bonds, and cash is the lowest it has ever been, at least since 1948. How low is that? About 2% a year. That's right. The prices of stocks, bonds, and cash are so high today that a diversified portfolio of them is priced to return only 2% a year for the next 10 years. That's including inflation, by the way. After inflation, the portfolio is likely to lose money. The blue line in the chart below is the projected 10-year return for this blended portfolio. The red line is the actual 10-year return from each point (the red line ends 10 years ago, obviously). John Hussman, Hussman Funds For those who are counting on returns of, say, 10% a year to pad their retirement accounts over the next decade, that's bad news. Here's the good news, though. If I'm right about the likelihood of a significant drop in stock prices over the next couple of years, you'll have the opportunity to move cash into the market at much lower prices. And those lower prices will give you a much greater likelihood of earning a decent long-term return. In the meantime, keep your long-term return expectations in check ... * Yes, I know. John Hussman of the Hussman Funds has had lousy performance in recent years. As a result, everyone now thinks he's an idiot. Don't think that. John Hussman's recent performance does not undermine his valuation analysis. Unless it's "different this time" — unless a century of valuation measures that have always been predictive in the past have suddenly been rendered worthless — John Hussman will be right in the end. And if you're just so convinced that Hussman is an idiot that you can't listen to a word he says, then listen to Jeremy Grantham instead. He's saying the same thing: "The next bust will be unlike any other.") SEE ALSO: I Don't Know What The Market Is Going To Do (And No One Else Does Either) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople gather in front of a branch of Jiangsu Sheyang Rural Commercial Bank, in YanchengSHANGHAI (Reuters) - Hundreds of people rushed to withdraw money from a branch of a small Chinese bank after rumors spread about its solvency, reflecting growing anxiety among investors as regulators signal greater tolerance for credit defaults. The case highlights the urgency of plans to implement a deposit insurance system to protect investors' deposits in case of bank insolvency, given that Chinese are growing increasingly nervous about the impact that slowing economic growth will have on the viability of financial institutions. Regulators have said they will roll out deposit insurance as soon as possible, without giving a firm deadline. Domestic media reported, and a local official confirmed, that ordinary depositors swarmed a branch of JiangsuSheyang Rural Commercial Bank in Yancheng in economically troubled Jiangsu province on Monday. Bank Chairman Zang Zhengzhi was quoted as saying the bank would ensure payments to all the depositors. The report did not say how the rumor originated. Why Yancheng investors suddenly lost confidence in the security of their bank deposits is not clear, given that theSheyang bank is subject to formal reserve requirements, loan-to-deposit ratios and other rules to ensure they keep sufficient cash on hand to meet demand. Bank failures in China are virtually unknown, as Chinese banks are considered to operate under an implicit guarantee from the government. Finally, the central bank has eased up on money rates since February, and traders say liquidity in the interbank market -- where banks like Sheyang bank can tap short-term funds to meet depositor demand -- remains relatively relaxed. "It's true that these rumors exist, but actually (the bank going bankrupt) is impossible. It's a completely different situation from the problem with the cooperatives," said Zhang Chaoyang, an official at the propaganda department of the Communist Party committee in Tinghu district, where the bank branch is located. Zhang was referring to an incident that rattled depositors in Yancheng in January, when some local rural cooperatives -- which are not subject to the supervision of the bank regulator -- ran out of cash and locked their doors. Local officials say several co-op bosses fled after committing fraud. China's central bank governor said earlier this month that deposit rates are likely to liberalized in one to two years - the most explicit timeframe to date for what would be the final step in freeing up banks to set their own interest rates. It is widely expected to introduce a deposit insurance scheme before liberalizing deposit rates to protect savers in case a freed-up market leads to major strains on smaller banks and alarms the public. Analysts also expect the controls on deposit rates to be lifted gradually. Is China's debt nightmare a province called Jiangsu? Local and global investors in China have taken note of Beijing's recent decision to allow China's first domestic bond default by Shanghai Chaori Solar Energy Science and Technology Co Ltd in March. Officials have indicated publicly that they are not worried that more defaults will damage economic stability. In the past, domestic bond issuers were routinely bailed out by local governments and banks, and the willingness of regulators to let Chaori miss interest payments negatively impacted rates in Chinese offshore credit markets. More recently, media also reported a heavily indebted real estate developer in Zhejiang province was at risk of defaulting on 3.5 billion yuan ($565 million) worth of loans -- a situation that has yet to be resolved. When contacted by Reuters by phone on Tuesday, an official at the Jiangsu Sheyang Rural Commercial Bank branch hung up, saying she was busy. An official at the administrative office at Jiangsu Sheyang Rural Commercial Bank said the bank would publish a statement shortly. On its website, the bank says it is capitalized at 525 million yuan ($85 million) and had total deposits of 12 billion yuan as of end-February, Officials at the Jiangsu branch offices of the China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC) declined to comment. The Yancheng branch of CBRC and the propaganda offices in Yancheng city and Sheyang county did not answer calls seeking comment. ($1 = 6.1888 Chinese Yuan) (Reporting by Gabriel Wildau, Xu Yong, Pete Sweeney, Samuel Shen, John Ruwitch and Shanghai newsroom; Writing by Kazunori Takada; Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderNEW YORK (Reuters) - Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt; shareholders will find out this week whether the U.S. Federal Reserve will allow the bank to start returning capital to shareholders in a meaningful way for the first time since the financial crisis. But even if the Wall Street bank gets the Fed's blessing to buy back more shares and potentially raise its dividend, it is unlikely to hit a shareholder return target Chief Executive James Gorman set out for this year, analysts and investors said. The target, called return on equity (ROE), measures how much profit a bank makes using shareholder funds. An ROE of at least 10 percent would show that Morgan Stanley can earn enough to pay for new capital and signal that the bank is past the restructuring it needed to make after the financial crisis. Morgan Stanley's annual return on equity has languished below 10 percent since 2006. If the bank cannot jump that hurdle in the near term, which could be done by boosting profits, buying back shares, or both, shareholders may get impatient and demand that management outline a bolder strategy to boost profits. "They should be generating double-digit ROEs, and if they aren't, what are they going to do about it?" said Mike Mayo, a longtime bank analyst at CLSA. He raised a similar question at Morgan Stanley's annual meeting last year, prompting Gorman to say the bank would meet the 10 percent target some time in 2014. Last week, the Fed said Morgan Stanley passed its annual stress test, a requirement of the Dodd-Frank financial reform legislation that examines how well big banks' balance sheets would hold up in hypothetical crises. As part of the test, banks submitted capital plans, including how much they would like to spend buying back stock and paying out dividends. On Wednesday, the Fed will say whether those plans have been approved, and how much each bank can spend. Morgan Stanley, the sixth largest U.S. bank by assets, has been paying only a nominal dividend since the financial crisis and has not had a meaningful stock buyback program since 2006. Gorman recently referred to Morgan Stanley's 5-cent quarterly dividend as "distressed," even though he said the bank is in a position of financial strength. Bank of America Corp &lt;BAC.N&gt; and Citigroup Inc &lt;C.N&gt; pay lower quarterly dividends of a penny, while Goldman Sachs Group Inc &lt;GS.N&gt; pays 55 cents, JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt; pays 38 cents and Wells Fargo &amp; Co &lt;WFC.N&gt; pays 30 cents. All of those banks bought back more stock than Morgan Stanley last year in dollar terms. Morgan Stanley has paid little cash back to investors because it had a bigger priority: funding its purchase of the Smith Barney brokerage business from Citigroup, a deal executed over four and a half years that was finished in June and ultimately cost Morgan Stanley $11.7 billion. "We have been, for the last couple of years, quite conservative and deliberately so," Gorman said in a recent interview with Fox Business Network. But, he added, now that the bank has clearly recovered from the crisis, he wants capital returns to reflect that strength. Morgan Stanley declined to comment about its proposed buyback and dividend plans or the implications for ROE. Despite some concerns of ROE, the stock was among the best performers in the financial sector last year, up 64 percent in 2013, and shares have more than doubled since their post-crisis low of $12.36 in 2012. Shares are up 3.4 percent year-to-date, closing at $32.44 on Monday. Some investors and analysts say it is less important that Morgan Stanley hits Gorman's return-on-equity goal this year than that its returns are moving in the right direction. "They've had to get their balance sheet back in order, and now it's time to start sending some of that money toward shareholders," said Michael Cuggino, president and portfolio manager of the Permanent Portfolio Family of Funds, which owns Morgan Stanley shares. "But they don't have 100 percent control when it comes to meeting their ROE targets. It gets back to the question of, 'What does the Fed have to say?'" How much the Fed will allow Morgan Stanley to spend on buybacks will affect how fast it can hit the 10 percent target, which would be more than double the 4.3 percent ROE it delivered in 2013. Morgan Stanley's returns were weighed down by one-time litigation costs, an accounting charge and the cost of the Smith Barney purchase. This year's profits are expected to be helped by higher earnings from that business as well as a reduction of fixed-income trading assets that are costly under new regulations. Although analysts expect Morgan Stanley's profits to jump 62 percent this year, many still describe Gorman's 2014 goal as aggressive. It would require Morgan Stanley to exceed analysts' earnings expectations by a substantial amount, or buy back more stock than analysts expect the Fed to allow. Morgan Stanley started buying back stock last year for the first time since 2006. It announced a $500 million repurchase program in July, and used $350 million worth of that authorization before year-end. Even with those repurchases, Morgan Stanley's outstanding share count increased by 2 percent last year because of shares issued as part of compensation. By comparison, its chief rival Goldman Sachs has spent $21 billion repurchasing shares since 2010, reducing outstanding stock by 15 percent, and has increased its dividend twice. Analysts are estimating that Morgan Stanley will buy back about $700 million worth of stock this year on a net basis, on average, according to ISI Group. The bank would need to buy back nearly 20 times that amount to hit a 10 percent ROE target, based on the average analyst earnings estimate. Instead, analysts are forecasting a return-on-equity of 7.5 percent this year, on average, according to Thomson Reuters data. Next year, analysts estimate Morgan Stanley will reach an ROE of 8.6 percent, on average. Analysts do not expect the bank to hit 10 percent on a quarterly or annual basis in either year. (Editing by Dan Wilchins, Linda Stern and Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
Nicholas CarlsonHONG KONG (Reuters) - Every big bank in town wanted a piece of the Alibaba Group Holding Ltd initial public offering, set to be the biggest technology listing ever. So much so that, according to Thomson Reuters data, major banks skipped an estimated $100 million in combined fees they could have made from work for other clients over the past year. People familiar with the matter say that's because the banks didn't want to irk the Chinese e-commerce giant by working for its rivals or acquisition targets, and risk losing out on business in an IPO expected to be bigger than Facebook Inc's $16 billion listing in 2012. Alibaba's giant IPO comes amid a wave of deals in China's tech sector, putting banks in a tricky situation when it comes to backing clients in the industry. In a sector that's red-hot, companies are sensitive about letting advisors work on deals that run parallel to those of competitors for fear of confidential information leaking out. Another concern for companies is that a financial advisor already supporting one IPO in the space can't give its undivided attention to a rival's deal. As the major investment banks operating in the region remained on standby over the past year for Alibaba's IPO, they kept their distance from the giant's peers in hopes of winning a role on the mega-deal, the people familiar with the matter said. An estimated $300 million in fees are up for grabs in a listing that Alibaba said on March 16 will take place in the United States. Tuesday marked the first meeting of the bankers, lawyers and accountants helping the company on the deal, getting together in Hong Kong, which houses part of Alibaba's corporate finance team. Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan and Morgan Stanley are the banks working on the IPO, Reuters previously reported. All six banks are existing lenders to Alibaba, putting them in good position to win the coveted mandates, the people familiar with the matter said. The estimated fees from Alibaba's IPO would make it the biggest Chinese fee payer to global investment banks in a decade. "Because Alibaba is a very big transaction, people are very keen, the process is so competitive," said Ronald Wan, chief China advisor at financial services firm Asian Capital Holdings. "So you have the view that if you're not a friend, you're an enemy. And there's nothing in between," Chan said. A Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Alibaba declined to comment. Banks mentioned in the story either declined to comment or did not respond to emails seeking response. Sources declined to be identified as they were not authorized to speak to the media. A recent unsolicited bid by Alibaba to buy out a Chinese internet company exposed the battle lines. Alibaba, which already owns 28 percent of digital mapping company AutoNavi Holdings Ltd, last month offered to buy the rest of the company in a deal valuing the target at $1.6 billion. When AutoNavi tapped advisors to organize its defense, some investment banks passed on the business to avoid potential conflicts with the mega-IPO, people familiar with the matter said. In the end, AutoNavi's independent committee hired Lazard Ltd as its financial advisor. AutoNavi declined to comment for this article. Banks usually pounce on defense mandates like this. These are lucrative roles for mergers and acquisitions departments which can command a fee of nearly 2 percent of the total deal value. In February 2012, well before Alibaba launched its IPO process, IFR reported that at least five banks, including Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, were in the running for mandates to underwrite an IPO by JD.com, the number two e-commerce company in China. When the Alibaba competitor filed for a $1.5 billion U.S. IPO last month, only two underwriters were in: Bank of America and UBS. An external spokesman for JD.com declined to comment saying the company was in a quiet period ahead of its IPO. Similarly, when Tencent Holdings, Alibaba's biggest Chinese Internet rival, and JD.com announced a tie-up this month, all of the six banks working with Alibaba were out of the picture, people familiar with the matter told Reuters. Instead, Tencent was advised by Barclays, while Bank of America was JD.com's financial adviser. Tencent did not reply to emails or phone calls seeking comment. In Alibaba's $804 million friendly bid this month to buy a controlling stake in ChinaVision Media Group Ltd, mainstream banks again didn't sign up with the target company. While Goldman Sachs advised Alibaba, little-known Reorient Financial Markets Ltd was the financial adviser for ChinaVision. ChinaVision did not reply to email seeking response. "You can see how banks have used their calculators to figure out how big this deal could be," said Wan, of Asian Capital Holdings. "And so they'll try not to do anything to upset Alibaba or its management." (Reporting by Denny Thomas; Additional reporting by Michael Flaherty; Editing by Kenneth Maxwell) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
YouTube / Margin Call TrailerThere's a fair amount of economic data coming out today. Nothing is too major, but all interesting to watch. Via Calculated Risk, here it is: • At 9:00 AM ET, S&amp;P/Case-Shiller House Price Index for January. Although this is the January report, it is really a 3 month average of November, December and January. The consensus is for a 13.3% year-over-year increase in the Composite 20 index (NSA) for January. The Zillow forecast is for the Composite 20 to increase 13.0% year-over-year, and for prices to increase 0.5% month-to-month seasonally adjusted.• Also at 9:00 AM, FHFA House Price Index for January 2013. This was original a GSE only repeat sales, however there is also an expanded index. The consensus is for a 0.4% increase.• At 10:00 AM, New Home Sales for February from the Census Bureau. The consensus is for a decrease in sales to 440 thousand Seasonally Adjusted Annual Rate (SAAR) in February from 468 thousand in January.• Also at 10:00 AM, the Conference Board's consumer confidence index for March. The consensus is for the index to increase to 78.6 from 78.1.• Also at 10:00 AM, the Richmond Fed Survey of Manufacturing Activity for March. We'll be covering it all LIVE. FREE AppDownload
SHANGHAI (Reuters) - Hundreds of people rushed to withdraw money from a branch of a small Chinese bank on Monday after rumors spread about its solvency, local media reported, reflecting growing anxiety among investors as regulators signal greater tolerance for credit defaults. The incident occurred at a branch of Jiangsu Sheyang Rural Commercial Bank in Yancheng in Jiangsu province, about 300 km (185 miles) north of Shanghai, the semi-official China News Service reported late on Monday. Bank chairman Zang Zhengzhi was quoted saying the bank would ensure payment to all the depositors. The report did not say how the rumor originated. Jiangsu Sheyang Rural Commercial Bank is subject to formal reserve requirements, loan-to-deposit ratios and other rules to ensure they keep sufficient cash on hand. Depositor sentiment in Yancheng was rattled in January, when some local rural cooperatives -- which are not subject to the supervision of the bank regulator -- ran out of cash and locked their doors. That news was followed by China's first domestic bond default by a Shanghai-based solar power company in March, which negatively impacted wider sentiment in Chinese credit markets. Local media have also reported a heavily indebted real estate developer in Zhejiang province was at risk of defaulting on 3.5 billion yuan ($565 million) worth of loans -- a situation that has yet to be resolved. When contacted by Reuters by phone on Tuesday, an official at the Jiangsu Sheyang Rural Commercial Bank branch hung up, saying she was busy. An official at the administrative office at Jiangsu Sheyang Rural Commercial Bank said the bank would publish a statement shortly. On its website, the bank says it is capitalized at 525 million yuan ($85 million) and had total deposits of 12 billion yuan as of end-February, Officials at the Jiangsu branch offices of the China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC) declined to comment. The Yancheng branch of CBRC and the propaganda offices in Yancheng city and Sheyang county did not answer calls seeking comment. Until now, Chinese banks have operated under an implicit government guarantee that has largely prevented them from going bankrupt and has protected depositors in the rare cases when they have. Regulators are expected to unveil a formal deposit insurance scheme this year. Ahead the Lunar New Year holidays in late January, at least three rural cooperatives in Yancheng ran short on funds, prompting what the local government described as a panic as depositors rushed to withdraw cash. Local officials say several co-op bosses fled after committing fraud. ($1 = 6.1888 Chinese Yuan) (Reporting by Gabriel Wildau, Xu Yong, Pete Sweeney, Samuel Shen, John Ruwitch and Shanghai newsroom; Writing by Kazunori Takada) FREE AppDownload
Two Micron All Sky Survey/Spitzer Good morning! Things are very quiet. Around the world, very little is happening in markets. But generally markets have some lift to them. US futures are up modestly. German stocks rallied 0.79%. The big story right now is probably the selloff in red-hot high-growth stocks. Companies like Tesla, Netflix, Twitter, and the biotechs have been getting pummeled lately, causing the NASDAQ to be much more of a laggard than everyone else. This is something we'll be watching again today, to see if this risk aversion creeps elsewhere. Other than that, nothing too much special is happening at the moment. FREE AppDownload
