FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThings got crazy last week with the global markets getting rocked as the emerging markets (EM) tumbled. While everyone is sure to keep an eye on the EMs this week, the Federal Reserve will take center stage as it holds its Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting on Tuesday and Wednesday. This'll be the last one with Ben Bernanke at the helm. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary Is This All Just A Big Short Squeeze?: For the most part, economists and market strategists entered 2014 optimistically. There was an "all-clear" feeling regarding risk as the U.S. economy appeared to be picking up steam. And all of this added to expectation that the Federal Reserve would continue to taper its large-scale asset purchases and eventually tighten monetary policy. This meant rising interest rates and falling bond prices.Indeed, shorting Treasuries had arguably become one of the most overcrowded trades out there. So, what could've been an orderly sell-off was exacerbated by a big short squeeze in the bond market."Its mostly hedge funds and fast money accounts that have played it from the short side from the beginning of 2014," said Tom di Galoma, head of fixed income rates sales at ED&amp;F Man Capital Markets. "Most were looking for higher rates in 2014 near 3.5-4% on 10-years. This rally is all about short positions being alleviated and covered." FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Altaf HussainAmy ChuaIt's the No. 1 story on NYTimes.com today. But in case you missed it, Yale Law professor Amy Chua, better known as "The Tiger Mom," along with her husband, are out with an essay summarizing the views of their latest work, "The Triple Package: How Three Unlikely Traits Explain the Rise and Fall of Cultural Groups in America." The main thesis of their book is likely to elicit some groans: The most successful cultural groups in America, they write, tend to possess three qualities: an attitude of superiority, a concurrent sense of insecurity, and impulse control. Some groups got 'em, others don't, they argue. But there was another, more plausible assertion that jumped out to us: Being in America a long time seems to correlate with declining performance. They write: "Most fundamentally, groups rise and fall over time. The fortunes of WASP elites have been declining for decades. In 1960, second-generation Greek-Americans reportedly had the second-highest income of any census-tracked group. "Group success in America often tends to dissipate after two generations. Thus while Asian-American kids overall had SAT scores 143 points above average in 2012 — including a 63-point edge over whites — a 2005 study of over 20,000 adolescents found that third-generation Asian-American students performed no better academically than white students." This stat shows success in America is not about blood: "The fact that groups rise and fall this way punctures the whole idea of “model minorities” or that groups succeed because of innate, biological differences. Rather, there are cultural forces at work." This sort of helps clarify the view we got from the book via The New York Post's recent preview: that Chua and her husband believe specific cultural groups are inherently better than others.  But still, Chua and her husband hedge. Any individual, they say, is capable of defying their group's broader performance and develop the "triple package" of successful qualities: The way to develop this package of qualities — not that it’s easy, or that everyone would want to — is through grit. It requires turning the ability to work hard, to persevere and to overcome adversity into a source of personal superiority. This kind of superiority complex isn’t ethnically or religiously exclusive. It’s the pride a person takes in his own strength of will. Indeed, New York Magazine's Lisa Miller calls the work  a "triumph of caution." "One can almost hear the arguments in the Chua-Rubenfeld household after the publication of Tiger Mother,"  she writes. We're not sure if that will make for compelling reading. But these kinds of "secret recipe for success books" always blow out best-seller lists. "The Battle Hymn Of The Tiger Mother," Chua's first salvo on parenting, remains near the top 5,000 best-selling books on Amazon. So this new work will probably get gobbled up anyway.  Read the essay on NYTimes.com » FREE AppDownload
Markets are open in Asia, and it's ugly. Japan's Nikkei is down 1.9%. Korea's Kospi is down 1.8%. The yen is up 0.3% against the dollar. Gold is up 0.7%, touching its highest level since November. This comes in the wake of Friday's ugly U.S. sell-off. We saw the Dow fall 318 points and the S&amp;P 500 tumble 38 points to end the week, both moves reflecting losses of 2%. Year-to-date, the U.S. market is down by 3.1%. U.S. futures started trading again at 6 p.m. ET, and so far they're not doing much. S&amp;P 500 futures are down 3 points or around 0.2%. Much of last week's volatility seemed to originate in the emerging markets where currencies tumbled around the world. The Turkish lira, Argentine peso, South African rand, and Russian ruble were among the currencies that got brutalized. Selling began during Thursday's Asian trading session when we learned China's Flash manufacturing PMI unexpectedly signaled contraction. "We expect more soft data prints ahead, as the impact of slowing credit growth seeps through to the real economy," said Societe Generale's Wei Yao reacting to the Chinese data. More broadly speaking, there is concern that normalizing monetary policy in the U.S. means higher interest rates and a stronger dollar, which could make debt financing costs increasingly expensive for the emerging markets. Ironically, we witnessed a flight to safety last week amid the volatility and U.S interest rates fell. On Friday, Treasuries rallied sending the yield on the 10-year note as low as 2.70%. The action in the Treasury market sparked an alternative theory regarding the market volatility. You see, the consensus had broadly been that interest rates would go up this year, meaning bond prices would go down. This may have been one of the most agreed upon calls coming into the year. "Its mostly hedge funds and fast money accounts that have played it from the short side from the beginning of 2014," said Tom di Galoma, head of fixed income rates sales at ED&amp;F Man Capital Markets. "Most were looking for higher rates in 2014 near 3.5-4% on 10-years. This rally is all about short positions being alleviated and covered." The argument seems pretty strong that we may just be witnessing a gigantic bond market short squeeze. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Gold futures hit $1,273.50 an ounce in Sunday evening (EST) trading, a 0.7% increase from Friday's close and the highest level since Nov. 20, 2013. Gold had already begun showing signs of shrugging off the drubbing it took in 2013, and now concerns about emerging-market underperformance spreading across the world has even more investors looking toward safe havens. Silver is also up about 0.2%. Here's the chart for gold: Investing.com FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tim ChongLISBON/ATHENS (Reuters) - The Greek owners of an oil tanker that vanished off the Angolan coast on January 18 said on Sunday that pirates had hijacked the vessel and stolen a large quantity of cargo, contradicting the Angolan navy's denial that such an assault took place. Greece-based Dynacom, owners of the 75,000 deadweight tonne Liberian-flagged tanker MT Kerala, said it had managed to contact crew on the vessel who reported the pirates had left. "Pirates hijacked the vessel offshore Angola and stole a large quantity of cargo by ship-to-ship transfer. The pirates have now disembarked," the company said in a statement. It did not provide any further details on the attack or the ship's current location but added that all crew were safe. Dynacom's version of the events contradicted an account from the Angolan navy, which alleged the crew had turned off the ship's communications to fake a pirate attack. Captain Augusto Alfredo, spokesman for the Angolan navy, told Reuters earlier on Sunday that the ship had been located in Nigeria and that reports of a hijacking were false. The reports raised concern that piracy off West Africa was spreading south from the Gulf of Guinea, near Africa's biggest oil producer Nigeria, where most hijacking gangs are believed to originate. Pirate attacks jumped by a third last year off West Africa. Any attack off Angola, which is the continent's No. 2 crude producer, would be the most southerly to date. "It was all faked, there have been no acts of piracy in Angolan waters," Alfredo told Reuters. "What happened on January 18, when we lost contact with the ship, was that the crew disabled the communications on purpose." Alfredo declined to comment on how the navy had established the behavior of the MT Kerala's crew, saying only that other authorities may provide further details later. He also would not be drawn on the crew's possible motivation but said the ship was due to finish a time-charter contract for the Angolan state oil firm Sonangol on February 12. Sonangol said on Friday the MT Kerala had 27 crew, all of them Indian or Filipino. Alfredo said a tugboat had contacted the tanker in Angolan waters and then led it toNigeria. The tugboat was a replica of one involved in a pirate attack off Gabon last year, he said. An SOS raised by another tanker in Angolan waters saying it was under attack from pirates on Friday was also a false alarm, he added. "The navy and the air force went to the location and did not find any signs of an attack. We want to know if this was a diversion tactic and will remain alert as there may be some forces maneuvering behind these acts," Alfredo said. (Reporting by Shrikesh Laxmidas in Lisbon and Renee Maltezou in Athens) FREE AppDownload
U.S. pension funds were among the hardest hit investor classes when the financial crisis caused asset prices to plunge. They were also among the biggest beneficiaries of the monster bull market that began in March 2009. Now that many of these funds have gone from being underfunded to be fully-funded, some experts expect them to scale back their exposures to stocks and reallocate towards bonds. "We expect nearly $150bn of annual S&amp;P pension asset allocation equity outflows in 2014 and 2015 as the average equity allocation of S&amp;P 500 plans drops from 45% to roughly 30%," said Deutsche Bank's David Bianco. "We do not see this as a threat to healthy S&amp;P 500 returns through 2015, but it should help slow the ascent in long-term interest rates and keep corporate credit spreads tight." Dropping from 45% to 30% seems like a big move. And for many of you young folks, that looks like too little exposure to stocks. But keep in mind, most companies stopped offering pensions to new employees a long time ago. And because the workers in pension plans are older and closer to retirement, the exposure to stocks are expectedly lower. It's interesting to note that the typical U.S. pension fund still has more exposure to stocks than pension funds from most other places in the world. Keep in mind, different countries have different regulations, different demographics, different retirement living costs, different risk appetites, etc. In a November 2013 note to clients, UBS's Stephane Deo shared this chart showing how some countries invest their pension funds: UBS FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Andrew BurtonOn Friday, when stocks were plunging, natural gas soared 9.6% to $5.18 per million British thermal units (MMBtu) at the Henry Hub. Up 20% for the week. The highest close since June 2010. Back then, the “shale gas revolution” had turned into a crazy no-holds-barred land-grab and fracking boom that veered into overproduction and a “glut” – accompanied by a historic collapse in price. The US could not export its excess production due to export restrictions and the lack of major LNG export terminals. By April 2012, when the Japanese were paying around $17 per MMBtu for LNG on the world markets, natural gas in the US hit a decade low of $1.92 per MMBtu, and predictions that it would go to zero showed up in the mainstream media. That was the bottom. But nothing can be priced below the cost of production forever. By Friday, natural gas was up 170% from the April 2012 low. Turns out, only a low price can cure a low price. The low price caused demand to creep up. Gas exports via pipeline to Mexico have been growing, especially since additional pipeline capacity went into service last year. Mexico is switching power generation from using its own oil to cheap US natural gas. This allows it to export its more valuable oil to the US. Ka-ching. But building gas-fired generating capacity is a slow-moving process. Other exports are also moving forward – in people’s heads. There are pipelines between the US and Canada, but the US is a net importer. Exports of LNG are at this point still a pipedream, so to speak, though deals are being made, contingent on getting government approvals to export LNG. It’s going to take years before LNG can be exported in large quantities. But the low price had short-term and structural impacts. Utilities dispatched electricity generation from their coal-fired plants to their gas-fired plants. And there have been structural changes: utilities have built gas-fired power plants and have retired – not mothballed! – their oldest, most inefficient, and most polluting coal-fired power plants. Global industrial companies have been building plants in the US for energy-intensive processes and for processes that use natural gas as feed stock. Even natural gas in transportation is picking up. The low price destroyed the business model for drillers. Thousands of unprofitable wells litter the land. Many billions were written off. Real money that had been recklessly thrown around during the boom disappeared into the ground. Investors were lured with false promises. The bloodletting in the industry was enormous. Some of the largest drillers have pulled back from drilling for dry natural gas. Most of the wells that are still being drilled are in fields that are rich in natural-gas liquids and oil, which sell for much higher prices and make wells profitable. Dry natural gas has become a byproduct. In the immensely productive Bakken shale-oil field in North Dakota, where gas occurs along with oil, 30% of it is flared – burned at the well as a waste product. The low price doesn’t justify building pipelines to haul it off. But shale gas wells have sharp decline rates, and new wells need to be drilled constantly to make up for the decline in older wells. These days, not enough wells are being drilled, and production in all gas plays combined – except for the Marcellus – is already in slight decline. The only production boom left is in the Marcellus: the “shale gas revolution” in the US is now a one-pony show. In January 2012, according to Baker Hughes, there were 143 rigs drilling for natural gas in the Marcellus – the most prolific parts of which are in Pennsylvania. Today, there are 86. But during the drilling boom, someone forgot to install sufficient pipeline infrastructure. So, wells were shut in, perhaps thousands of them, a giant reservoir waiting for takeaway capacity. That was 2012. Last year, part of a new pipeline network went into service, and bottlenecks were removed, and the gas started flowing to New York City and other places. Drilling is down. Production – the delivery of gas to the markets – is soaring!   How long can it last? Well decline rates in the Marcellus are as steep as elsewhere, and this sudden burst in production, if not supported by a new bout of drilling, will taper off as it has in other fields. And that’s today’s one-pony show of the US “shale gas revolution.” Then cold fronts swept across the country. These polar vortices, as they’re now referred to for additional flair, have caused demand for gas as heating fuel to spike to record highs. And more bitter cold weather is being forecast. Natural gas in underground storage dropped to 2,423 billion cubic feet (Bcf) for the week ending January 17. The last time storage levels were this low during an equivalent week was in January 2005! At the time, gas was selling for $12 to $14 per MMBtu and hit an all-time high of $15.40 in December that year. But demand has changed. In 2013, demand was over 18% higher than in 2005; this year, it might be over 20% higher [my article from nine days ago.... Natural Gas Squeeze? “Panic hasn’t ensued just yet”].  And the big money has jumped into the fray. For years, the favorite game was to short natural gas, playing the glut for all it was worth, a sport that has gotten very complex and, if you get the timing wrong by a few hours, very expensive. Some of the spike late Friday, and some of the action all week, was due to a hard squeeze on these folks – as the big money arrived en masse. On Wednesday, the big money went public. As reported by MarketWatch, Citi analysts wrote that, “With tight fundamentals, $5 gas is not impossible.” What had been obvious for a while, showed up in the media: “Strong demand is expected to push gas inventories to very low levels with cold weather lingering.” And the price took off once again. Now everyone is bent over weather data, trying to figure out what nastiness the winter will still serve up, and they’re betting on the weather because cold snaps happen relatively fast and are observable. Watching the fundamentals is like watching paint dry. But it’s the fundamentals that have changed the equation. The polar vortices are merely speeding up the calculus. Natural gas is famous for its head fakes, unexpected plunges when it should rise, and inexplicable rises when it should drop. It’s being manipulated in a myriad ways. It’s always a bet on the weather, except when it’s not. It can turn around in a second and cause whiplash. It’s a seatbelt-mandatory commodity. And once every few years, there is a panic, and it spikes to dizzying highs. While natural gas was soaring on Friday, and all week, the rest of the markets were tanking, with emerging markets “trading in full-blown panic mode.” What gives? Read....  A Teeny-Weeny Bit Of Taper, And Look What Happened FREE AppDownload
Almost no currency was safe in last week's emerging market bloodbath. Investors appear to be increasingly concerned that the eventual normalization of monetary policy in the U.S. means higher interest rates and a stronger dollar, which is bad news for emerging market countries that rely heavily on external financing. Ironically, the volatility seems to be causing money to flow into the U.S. Treasury market, which means interest rates are actually coming down. Regardless, money is leaving the emerging markets. And as UBS's Geoff Dennis notes, those outflows are accelerating. "[Global Emerging Market] funds saw further outflows of approx. $2.4 billion last week, after $1.3 billion of outflows in the prior week," wrote Dennis in a note on Friday. "This is now the 13th consecutive week of outflows from EM funds, the longest such streak since 2002. All fund types (by region), saw outflows last week. On a four-week moving average basis, there have been net outflows of $1.1 bn from dedicated GEM funds; $0.3 bn from LatAm; $0.1bn from Asia ex Japan and $0.05 bn from EMEA." These outflows included $1.0 billion from ETFs and $1.4 billion from non-ETF funds. "In the first three weeks of 2014, GEM funds have seen total outflows of $5.0 billion (MSCI GEMs is down today by 5% YTD), following outflows of $15.9 billion for the whole of 2013," added Dennis. "During the current streak of outflows (13 weeks), GEM funds have reported net outflows of $20.6bn. "Still, since January 2006, approx. $168 billion has flowed into GEM funds on a cumulative basis." UBS FREE AppDownload
"Tiny Times" In the heart of old Shanghai is a magnificent villa that serves as the workplace of Guo Jingming, a provocative young film-maker. "Tiny Times", his recent blockbuster, follows the travails of some fashionable college girls (pictured, in the walk-in closet of one of them). Its depictions of the high life, rarely shown in Chinese films, have set social networks ablaze; they have also been attacked by the People’s Daily for "unconditional hedonism". Mr Guo says: "So what? Materialism is neutral, neither positive nor negative." After all, he goes on, China’s cosmopolitans know at any given moment what movies are playing in New York and what fashions are on the Paris runways. China’s once-drab and Mao-suited interior is not so far behind. In Mianyang, a middling city in the province of Sichuan, an enormous billboard featuring Miranda Kerr, an Australian supermodel, draped in Swarovski crystals welcomes shoppers to the Parkson shopping mall. It is one of half a dozen high-end malls in town. Luxury sales are exploding there. Local Audi and BMW dealers sell more than 100 cars each a month; Land Rover, Jaguar and Cadillac have just muscled in on the market. Thirty kilometres (20 miles) away in Luxi, a town of 57,000 people, online shopping is hot. The first express-delivery office opened only three years ago, and handled perhaps ten packages a day; today, there are five, each handling 100 packages a day. Even 60km away, in rural Santai county where farm-workers are the customers, one modern shopping mall has sprung up and another is being built. "Customers are evolving very quickly from the low-end market to the middle and high-end," says Yang Shuiying, proud general manager of the Zizhou shopping centre. In the 1950s and 1960s the world economy was transformed by the emergence of the American consumer. Now China seems poised to become the next consumption superpower. In all likelihood, it has just overtaken Japan to become the world’s second-biggest consumer economy. Its roughly $3.3 trillion in private consumption is about 8% of the world total, and it has only just begun. "The future of the world will be profoundly shaped by China’s rush toward consumerism," says Karl Gerth, an expert on Chinese consumption at the University of California, San Diego. Although investment made the biggest contribution to China’s growth last year, and although private consumption’s share of output, now at 36%, fell between 2000 and 2010, that trend is unlikely to last, for several reasons. First, boosting the people’s desire to consume is a stated goal of China’s leaders. Higher government spending on health care and pensions may encourage households to save less for such things. Higher interest rates may, paradoxically, discourage thrift if people reach their savings goals faster. Rising wages and an ageing population will also shift the balance towards consumption rather than saving. And although household debt is growing fast, China still has relatively little. Besides, consumption has not fallen in absolute terms. It has, in fact, grown briskly--just not quite as quickly as the economy overall. In dollar terms, China contributed more than any other country to the growth in global consumption in 2011-13, according to Andy Rothman of CLSA, a broker. Moreover, China’s official statistics understate some consumption--spending on housing, for example. A massive push to urbanise is also under way, which should produce tens of millions of richer citizens seeking retail therapy. McKinsey, a consultancy, forecasts that consumption by urban Chinese households will increase from 10 trillion yuan in 2012 to nearly 27 trillion yuan in 2022 (see chart 1). How much China spends is striking. Even more so is the way it spends. This is now one of the world’s most sophisticated consumer markets, heavily skewed towards expensive goods. Local property barons are now building half the world’s new shopping malls in China, many of them in smaller cities, because even punters without big incomes are becoming big shoppers. Research by IDEO, a consultancy, has found that many young migrant workers earning less than 5,000 yuan ($830) a month will spend a month’s wages on an Apple iPhone. That points to another difference from previous consumption booms elsewhere: with the world’s largest e-commerce market at their fingertips, Chinese shoppers are online from the start. As a result, what was once a foreign marketers’ fantasyland is now the world’s fiercest battleground for brands. Sanford C. Bernstein, a research firm, calls the Chinese "increasingly aspirational and conspicuous consumers" who routinely trade up to fancier labels even on staples. Newly middle-class types in cities in the interior are keen to try out new products, especially the ones they have seen on foreign television shows. Jeff Walters of the Boston Consulting Group (BCG) points out that even country bumpkins are consuming global media, thanks to the wild popularity of local online-video services. Chinese consumers, he says, were watching the latest season of "Downton Abbey" on Youku, a video-sharing website, well before it was released in America. This passion for fashion is, in theory, good news for multinational marketers. Unlike, say, Japan, where consumers heavily favour local brands, Chinese consumers hold foreign brands in high esteem. Torsten Stocker of AT Kearney, a consultancy, observes that foreign brands are doing well in sectors they introduced to China (chewing gum, chocolate); those that have "heritage" appeal (premium cars, luxury goods) and those where local brands are not trusted, such as powdered baby milk. The world’s fast-food and consumer-goods giants--Procter &amp; Gamble, Pepsi, General Mills and so on--are also big in China, but they are increasingly dogged by local rivals. A recent study by Bain, another consultancy, found that although foreign brands still lead in some areas (biscuits, fabric-softener, bottled water), local brands are surging in others (toothpaste, cosmetics, juice). Brand-hopping, though, is rife. Having grown up with radical economic change, Chinese shoppers are "very fickle, and hard to pin down to a strong brand loyalty", says Mintel, a market-research firm. Yuval Atsmon of McKinsey reckons that brand-switching--between Pepsi and Coke, Colgate and Crest, KFC and McDonald’s--is common, "much more so than in most markets". Swarovski, the crystal-maker, has discovered that over three-quarters of Chinese customers are eager to try new brands, a far higher figure than elsewhere. A recent study by Bain found that the top five brands in ten categories lost 30-60% of their customers between 2011 and 2012. This creates several problems. With two or three times as many brands on shelves as found in other countries, competition is ferocious. This makes advertising and marketing vital--but the cost of publicity is soaring. Also, firms that thought they enjoyed a "first-mover advantage" have discovered that their brands are now seen as stodgy or old-fashioned. Olay, a cosmetics brand, defined skin care in China for a generation--but Carol Potter of BBDO, an advertising agency, reckons that "the new generation thinks it’s a brand from yesterday." She adds that whereas Louis Vuitton once symbolised good and expensive taste in China, a new generation is seeking different, subtler luxuries. Another complication for marketers is that many Chinese shoppers have a global outlook. When previous middle classes rose to prominence in America and Japan, the internet did not exist. People could not Google the latest European fashions or check discounts on Amazon. The arrival of cheap air travel has also made the Chinese more discerning shoppers. Mr Stocker argues that these factors have "compressed the discovery process", which in Japan took 30 years, to less than ten. The Chinese are already the world’s biggest shoppers abroad, but a report released on January 20th by CLSA forecasts that the number of outbound Chinese tourists will double to 200m a year by 2020 and that their spending will triple over that time. James Button of SmithStreet, a consultancy, reports a well established piece of etiquette: "You must let friends know when you are going overseas," and take along an empty suitcase. Many Chinese also use online shopping agents, who aggregate requests and bring back foreign goods. Sales by overseas purchase agents came to nearly 50 billion yuan in 2012, a leap of more than 80% on the year earlier; they jumped by half again last year to 74.4. billion yuan. Foreign websites, including Amazon, now offer direct delivery to China for certain products, and local e-commerce giants such as Alibaba run cross-border services. Buying overseas saves money, since mark-ups and hefty taxes are the rule in China. Many ordinary folk travel not just to Hong Kong, the most convenient spot, but to Jeju Island in South Korea (where they can visit without a visa and shop duty-free) to stock up on cosmetics that cost much more at home. Price, though, is not the only motivation. Another is to avoid the counterfeit goods so common on the mainland. Even more important, consumers say, are the variety and freshness of the products available overseas. Nowhere is this wide-ranging urge to spend more obvious than in the market for luxury goods. Globally the Chinese are the biggest buyers of expensive items, accounting for some 29% of purchases last year (see chart 2). Some two-thirds of Chinese spending on luxury goods takes place outside the mainland; a fifth of it in Europe. (Harrods of London has seen sales to Chinese shoppers, its largest foreign contingent, increase by 50% a year since 2011.) Consistently favoured brands include Lancôme, Gucci, Audi, Rolex and Tiffany. The Chinese are also the world’s largest consumers of Bordeaux wine and cognac, though sales (like those of Moutai, a local grain alcohol) have fallen in the wake of official campaigns against gift-giving (see "Corruption: Less party time"). At Berry Bros &amp; Rudd’s bonded wine warehouse in Basingstoke, in southern England, where 4.5m expensive bottles are stored, more than 1m of those are owned by oenophiles from greater China. No longer, says the firm’s chairman, should the Chinese be pictured ruining fine wine by pouring Coca-Cola into it. Although a government crackdown on corruption has crimped mainland sales, and some luxury firms slowed down the rollout of new boutiques there last year, Coach, Prada and Bottega Veneta continued to expand. Apple expanded too; it now has more stores in Shanghai than in San Francisco, and launches new iPhones in Beijing when it does in California. Mr Button of SmithStreet thinks brands offering affordable luxury--Michael Kors and Kate Spade, say--can capture both the upwardly mobile and the "post-luxury" elites in the cities, who want less flashy brands. In the past, the Chinese showed little interest in Western art. That is starting to change, and may change quicker with the opening of a new museum of Western art in Shanghai. The richest man in China has just paid $28m for a Picasso, though he was condemned as "unpatriotic" on Sina Weibo. Ms Potter also observes that two-thirds of affluent consumers are keen to know the history and cultural background of foreign brands. So they love to buy Piaget watches in Geneva and Zegna suits in Milan, but reject unconventional offerings such as German watches or Japanese leather bags. It is not only in luxury goods that Chinese shoppers are leading the way. China has become the world’s biggest e-commerce market, with spending forecast to reach $540 billion next year. On Singles Day, an annual online-marketing extravaganza held on November 11th, 400m Chinese spent $5.7 billion just on Tmall, an e-commerce platform run by Alibaba; Americans, on their Cyber Monday a few weeks later, spent only about $2 billion. China is the world’s biggest maker and consumer of smartphones, and will soon be the largest "mobile-commerce" market, too. Perhaps because they distrust official information, the Chinese rely heavily on peer reviews. Research by BCG has shown that they write, and act on, online reviews of products and services far more than Westerners do. A recent study of purchases of moisturiser found that two-thirds of Chinese buyers relied on online recommendations by friends or family; the comparable figure in America was less than 40%. Millions of online shoppers follow the thoughts of Miumiu and Viviandan, leggy twins from industrial Chongqing, who started posting pictures of themselves in the latest fashions, with wry observations on trends and prices, a decade ago. Even now they post recommendations nearly every day on social-media sites such as Instagram, or on Weibo. Their likes and dislikes make or break products. Online shoppers in the remotest parts of China often know a great deal about a global brand’s attributes and pricing worldwide--which can put marketers on the back foot. Chinese consumers are no longer willing to pay a hefty premium for any old foreign brand. As they grow more discerning, multinationals are having to work harder to prove their worth--and are having to defend their brands on China’s wild social media. But creative approaches can pay off. When VF Corporation, a large American clothing firm, wanted to promote The North Face, a brand of outdoor clothing, in China, it struggled. Whereas climbers and hikers in the West relish the thought of conquering mountains alone, the Chinese generally think of outings in Nature as a spiritual escape, to be enjoyed with friends. So the firm created an online community linking amateurs to clubs devoted to outdoor pursuits. The website offers points for activity and loyalty that can be redeemed for products. Sales are soaring, and VF now has a detailed database of over half a million keen customers. The online awareness of Chinese customers has big global implications. According to Andrew Keith, the president of Lane Crawford, cosmopolitan Chinese consumers are now setting the agenda: "We are not teaching them, they are teaching us." (He should know; his Hong Kong department store has half a dozen shops in greater China, 650,000 high-spending customers and, in the new Shanghai store, private suites for "Platinum VIPs" who spend 60,000 yuan or more a year.) Alexis Perakis-Valat, head of L’Oréal’s China business, agrees. He believes that the Chinese market, unlike those in Western countries, is driven by young urban consumers who are demanding something new and have no taboos. He points to peculiar and distinctive products developed for this niche in China, such as a black-foam face-scrub for men, which are now being launched around the world. Another sign of such innovation is the reinvention of Johnnie Walker, a mass-market whisky brand belonging to Diageo, the world’s biggest spirits firm, as a luxury brand in China. Keen to win over sceptical consumers more accustomed to baijiu (a local firewater), the firm opened Johnnie Walker House in Shanghai almost three years ago. For around 800,000 yuan, or $132,000, the company’s master blender (with the delicious surname of Beveridge) will fly in and brew a special batch of Johnnie Walker precisely matched to a customer’s tastes. Certain rare blends, including some bearing the marks of the Chinese zodiac, are sold only at this venue. This effort has helped Diageo introduce its whiskies to thousands of affluent customers, who in turn have pushed the firm towards new inventions--such as blends with a much higher alcohol content--which helped its whisky revenues grow twice as fast as the industry average. The concept has been such a success that the company has opened new Houses in Beijing and Seoul, and plans others. When Diageo unveiled Odyssey, a special-edition blend, in 2012, it kicked off the global launch not in London or New York but in Shanghai. Life was simpler for foreign brands when they first came to China, reflects David Roth of The Store, an advertising agency: "It was a land grab…you just had to create awareness as quickly as possible." Now the Western invaders must not only cater to the world’s most demanding shoppers, but also cope with increasing home-grown competition. Chinese firms are starting to catch up with their fancier foreign rivals. Some even aspire to become global brands. Huawei, a telecoms-equipment giant, is making a big push into branded consumer electronics. "We have it easier than Samsung did," says Colin Giles, chief marketing officer for its consumer business, because Korean firms paved the way for global acceptance of Chinese brands. Xiaomi, a startup smartphone manufacturer in Beijing, has developed a hugely popular phone-and-app system inspired as much by Amazon as by Apple. It could become China’s first global innovation powerhouse. Leading the local pack is Lenovo, an electronics firm that previously bought IBM’s personal-computer business (and on January 23rd agreed to buy its low-end server business, too). When it launched its latest Yoga tablet last year it chose Ashton Kutcher, a Hollywood star who had played Steve Jobs in a film, as its spokesman. David Roman, Lenovo’s chief marketing officer, says that even a few years ago it would have been unthinkable to do a global product launch in China with a single tagline, unified advertising content and a Western spokesman. But now he thinks there is "a global consuming class", with more in common across borders than within. That sums up the rise of China nicely. Future consumer markets everywhere are going to look more Chinese. They will increasingly be cosmopolitan, luxury-minded and online. Firms that can flourish in China are not only winning today’s toughest market, but are also positioning themselves for tomorrow’s. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
At Harvard Business School, Tracy Britt Cool wrote an essay about her career hopes: "My goal is to work with a great investor, who even more importantly is a wonderful teacher and mentor." She got her wish. The 29-year-old has risen through the ranks at Berkshire Hathaway and is now one of Warren Buffett's top lieutenants, according to a new profile by Bloomberg's Noah Buhayar and Laura Colby. Some interesting nuggets from the story: This isn't the first press for Cool. This summer, the Wall Street Journal called her a "rising star." Read the full report at Bloomberg » FREE AppDownload
Regulators are investigating Bank of America for front running its clients' large trading orders, according to documents reviewed by Reuters reporters Karen Brettell and Aruna Viswanatha. Front running is a pretty simple trick. You (the bank) know your client is going to place a big order for a security. Since you know the price of the security will go up after that big buy, you place the bank's order ahead of your client's order. Sometimes this results in the price of the security going up for your client. In this case, according to Reuters, that client was Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. This was disclosed in a BrokerCheck filing on regulator FINRA's website. BrokerCheck allows anyone to look at a specific trader's professional background, and this report was filed with a former Bank of America trader named Eric Beckwith based in NYC. A bank spokesperson said the trader left the bank in July 2013. The filing dates back to June 2013. Here's a screenshot of the section of Beckwith's report explaining the investigation: FINRAThe FBI warned Bank of America of this investigation on Jan. 8, but the bank has yet to be accused of any wrongdoing. From Reuters: In the bulletin, the FBI warned of "unsophisticated tradecraft" such as hand signals or special ring tones that traders were using to deliver information about impending orders in the interest-rate swaps market. Hand signals. Like we said, front running's a pretty old trick. Check out the full report from Reuters » FREE AppDownload
After speaking on a panel at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Ray Dalio joined the folks at CNBC this morning. In his interview, he explained where things stand in the global economy right now, and how investors should act accordingly. Dalio is the head of Bridgewater Associates, the world's largest hedge fund with $150 billion assets under management.  He's known for his deep understanding of market cycles. Last year, Dalio released a video how the world's money machine works. It's a machine in which the use of either credit or money and the generation of debt creates different market cycles — recessions, depressions, boom years etc.  "I think we go so quickly thinking 'where does the economy go next' instead of thinking how it works," he told the Squawk crew. So here's today's engineering lesson — some of which he talked about on his panel — it's about the United States, Southern Europe, China and you (the investor). Dalio said that the US right now is in the middle of a post-recession short term debt cycle where assets will return about 4%. He calls this, "the boring years," and compared it to the economy in 2004 or 2006. We won't boom, we won't bust.  Southern Europe, on the other hand, is still struggling out of a nasty debt bubble — with debt rising faster than income — but unlike the United States, the region couldn't print money to inflate itself out of trouble. No one would fund Southern Europe's debt.  But still, that debt must be rolled over. To do that, Southern Europe's economy will remain depressed for quite a while — a very different position in the cycle from the U.S. Then there's China, which Dalio said is going through a much-needed tightening of monetary policy. The country's break-neck growth speed is slowing. Sunday its Q4 GDP number came in at 7.7%. That's a slow down from the same quarter the year before when the number came in at 7.8%. Economists expect full year growth to come in at its lowest number since 1990 at 7.4%. China's President, X Jinping, expected this slowing. In fact, instead of slowing, it's more of an attempt at normalization. The problem is that getting things to normal will be bumpy, if it's achievable at all. As China tries to find balance in its economy the tightening can get too tight  — as in, there isn't enough money floating around the economy to keep money flowing freely. Consumers can't do it with their purchasing power alone. That's when the government steps in and injects money into the system again. It's a tough place to be in because the government doesn't want the economy to freeze, and Dalio believes it's a bubble. We've already seen that happen this week. On Tuesday the Chinese government injected some cash into the banking system ahead of the Lunar New Year. It's a time of year when businesses pay a lot of Chinese migrant workers their yearly wages, people buy presents for each etc. The entire country needs cash. While doing this, the government also announced that smaller loans would be written off bank balance sheets. That's not tightening, but it is the country trying to find a balance between keeping money flowing through its economy and not drowning in cheap money as it tries to mature. And "balance" leads us to what Dalio talked about next — how to build a solid portfolio in our interconnected world. How do you invest in this environment? China's tightening, the U.S. is growing slowly, Southern Europe's depressed — we're in a world where people want to buy financial assets. It's a hunt for returns. There's a lot of demand for cash. At the same time, Dalio pointed out,  longer term debt and liabilities are eating money.  "If I could say one thing to your investors, it's try to achieve balance," he said. As an investor you need to diversify your portfolio and understand that in the type of world we're living in, your returns are going to look like this: 1% on cash, 3% on bonds, 4% on equities. It's a low yield world, and you should plan accordingly.  FREE AppDownload
Mohamed El-ErianMohamed El-ErianMohamed El-Erian is resigning from his positions as CEO and Co-CIO of PIMCO, the California-based fund giant with over $1.9 trillion in assets under management. El-Erian, a Business Insider contributor, is without a doubt one of the sharpest and most influential people in global finance. But who are his influences? Back in 2012, Business Insider asked who and what shaped the way he thinks. From very early on El-Erian learned the value of seeing things from multiple perspectives.  And he spent years questioning his own beliefs while at PIMCO where he experienced a culture of "healthy and constructive paranoia." Thanks to Mohamed El-Erian for helping us with this feature. FREE AppDownload
Here's a fantastic chart that basically explains all of economic history. It was tweeted out and annotated by James Plunkett and it's based on a chart from inequality economist Branko Milanovic. What it shows is income growth between 1988 and 2008 for every income percentile. The chart allows you to see how various income groups have thrived or stagnated over the past few decades (it stops at 2008, but it's safe to surmise the chart doesn't look much different right now).   James T Plunkett In the chart you can see how lower income percentiles have seen monster growth since the late '80s. This growth represents the emerging economies and the rise of the Chinese middle class. Then you have the developed world middle class, which has seen almost no real income growth over the last few decades (which probably explains a lot of the current angst over inequality). And then you have the rise of the ultra-elite, the global 1%, which has done fantastically well during all this time. As Plunkett puts it, every elite in Davos ought to see and understand this chart. (Via @bondvigilantes) FREE AppDownload
The chart below, one of a number of excellent long-term charts put together by @Macro_Tourist, shows interest rates going back to 3000 BC. A PDF with more charts as well as the one below can be found here. @Macro_Tourist
Indiana GLBT Connections/FlickrThe Indiana StatehouseALBANY, N.Y. (AP) — Minimum-wage increase proposals are getting the maximum push from Democrats in statehouses in more than half of U.S. states, highlighting the politically potent income inequality issue this year. Lawmakers in at least 30 states are sponsoring or are expected to introduce wage hike measures, according to a national review by The Associated Press. They hope to notch state-level victories as President Barack Obama and congressional Democrats remain stymied in attempts to raise the federal minimum wage above $7.25 an hour. The president is expected to mention the minimum wage in his State of the Union address Tuesday. Even in Republican-dominated capitals where the bills are longshots, the measures still give Democrats a chance to hammer home the popular theme of fair wages in what is an election year in most places. "It's a no-brainer for any Democrat," said Neil Sroka, a strategist for progressive groups who is communications director at the Howard Dean-founded Democracy for America. "Congress is failing. They can take real action right in the states and have a demonstrable impact right here at home. For politics and policy, it's a winning strategy." Minimum wage is a perennial issue that has taken on a higher profile amid the slowly recovering economy and growing public debate about income inequality. A Quinnipiac University poll this month found 71 percent of Americans in favor of raising the minimum wage — including more than half of Republicans polled. Michael Sargeant, executive director of the Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee, calls it an "organic issue that's bubbling up from the grassroots." But it's also being pressed by politicians and labor unions. Democrats challenging Republican governors have taken up the issue, and there are ballot initiatives in several states. "We are facing a huge income gap that only continues to widen, where the workers at the top see large wage increases and the workers at the bottom are at a standstill. That needs to change," said Massachusetts Democratic Senate President Therese Murray. Five states passed minimum wage measures last year, and advocates hope that number will grow as states from New Hampshire to Washington consider proposals. Many would push families above the federal poverty line, which is $15,730 for a family of two. In Iowa, a bill would hike the minimum wage from $7.25 an hour to $10.10. A Rhode Island bill would raise it from $8 to $9. And a year after New York approved a multiyear minimum wage hike, Assembly Democrats introduced another bill for 2014 sponsored by Labor Committee Chairman Carl Heastie of New York City that would accelerate the increase. Labor unions and other advocates point to workers like Andrew Lloyd, who cleans the cabins, bathrooms and cockpits of airplanes between flights at John F. Kennedy Airport in New York City for $8 an hour. With a wife and 1-year-old, he relies on food stamps to help stock the refrigerator and his paychecks barely cover diapers and other needs of his daughter. He said he can't afford a new pair of socks for himself. "It's not enough. What we're making is not enough to support," Lloyd said. "There's just no way they can justify what is going on is right." Opponents, many of them Republicans, argue that the higher wages translate into fewer jobs and higher consumer costs. So wage hike bills in Republican-controlled legislatures, like Florida and South Carolina, are not expected to pass. In Florida, Gov. Rick Scott said the claim that working families need the boost to make ends meet makes him "cringe, because I know that statement is a lie." "Even if we did raise the minimum wage, working families will still not be able to make ends meet on those jobs," Scott said. "We need good jobs that lead to good careers for our families, and that's what I am focused on." Already, a Democrat-backed bill to increase Indiana's minimum wage by $1 was blocked by majority Republicans on a party-line vote Tuesday. Win or lose, the legislation gives Democrats a potential weapon against Republican opponents. Eddie Vale, a Democratic strategist with close ties to labor unions, said Republicans who oppose a wage hike will face fierce criticism. "There's a lot of people in this state that are making the minimum wage that are voting Republican right now," said House Democratic Caucus Chairman Mike Turner of Tennessee, where they plan to introduce a minimum wage bill this year. "Maybe if they see that they don't have their best interests in their heart, they might change their minds." There's hope that success will breed more success. Vale, a top adviser at the Democratic super PAC American Bridge, said the thinking behind the push is to get things started at the state level, where lawmakers come into more direct contact with their constituents. Once state legislatures start moving, it will lend momentum to a federal expansion. In Minnesota, Rep. Ryan Winkler said as the debate spreads to more states, lawmakers might be more comfortable boosting the wage floor in his state. "It's not peer pressure, but it's safety in numbers," Winkler said. "It makes people feel like this is a mainstream thing to do." ___ Contributing were Associated Press writers Philip Elliott in Washington; Steve LeBlanc in Boston; Gary Fineout in Tallahassee, Fla.; Erik Schelzig in Nashville, Tenn.; and Tom LoBianco in Indianapolis. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FREE AppDownload
Neilson Barnard/Getty ImagesThe Palm Beach finance crowd can paddleboard whenever they please.Behind a semicircular brick drive and a lawn as manicured as a putting green sits a 30,000-square-foot masterpiece of Italian Renaissance architecture called Casa Nana. John Porter, a real estate associate for Corcoran who oversees some of the largest sales in Palm Beach County, Florida, points out the spiral staircase, built by famed 1920s architect Addison Mizner for the founder of the National Tea Company. “This home went for $30.2 million in 2003; today that sum wouldn’t be in the top 25 highest prices” of houses for sale in this area, Porter says. “Palm Beach real estate has gone from nothing going on to nothing left to sell.” Porter is giving me a tour of the so-called Billionaire’s Row, a stretch of South Ocean Boulevard on the island of Palm Beach that is bordered by some of the highest hedges I’ve ever seen. Through gaps in the greenery appear stone fountains, elephant statues, pools the size of tennis complexes (next to actual tennis complexes), and more clay roofs than one could count. It’s a monumental display of wealth, and it is rapidly expanding, not just here but in Delray Beach, Jupiter, Palm Beach Gardens and Boca Raton, as money pours out of the Northeast (and in some cases, from as far as London and Singapore) and into this already wealthy section of southeast Florida. Approximately 70 hedge and private equity funds are now headquartered here, many of which have set up shop in the last two years, jacking up home prices and spurring a countywide initiative to become, as some have said, “the new Greenwich.” For hedge fund managers who might normally be inclined toward Westchester or Connecticut, the allure of South Florida is as plain as grits on toast. The homes are sprawling; the Intracoastal Waterway is a yachter’s paradise. It has a glittering social scene. During high season—October through March—there might be several fundraisers on any given night. Perhaps the key factor, however: In Florida, there are no individual income taxes, no estate taxes and no capital gains taxes. A hedge fund manager reporting $1 million in income can expect to pay only the federal government, whereas his counterpart living in Connecticut pays that plus an extra $67,000. And if the poor schmuck were still in New York City? He’d better be ready to fork over $104,300. As for why all of this is happening now, when Florida has long been a sunny tax haven, so to speak, financiers point to the upcoming application of Section 457A of the Internal Revenue Code. Before 457A was enacted, certain fees and related earnings could grow tax deferred in offshore accounts for up to ten years. But now, according to the section, hedge fund managers will need to funnel all of the fees that were deferred before 2009 and their related earnings back into the U.S. by 2017. If a manager lives in Florida when this happens, he’s much less likely to pay exorbitant state taxes on the whole amount. If he still lived in New York City? Fuggedaboudit. It’s the job of Kelly Smallridge, president and CEO of the Palm Beach Business Development Board, to ensure that hedge fund and private equity managers are informed of these benefits, in the hopes that they, and their firms, will become Palm Beach County’s newest residents. She’s developed a red-carpet tour that goes beyond looking at office space and real estate to include meeting headmasters at private schools, the school-district superintendent and the mayor and speaking with the governor’s staff and CEOs who have moved their operations here. Plus, of course, a few nights on the town. In the winter, when the well-to-do from all over the Northeast visit Florida for charity balls, the board hosts dinners and parties for prospective relocators and local captains of industry. Last year, Smallridge and company sponsored a soiree aboard a $70 million yacht that featured Veuve Clicquot, caviar and live jazz. Guests—who included the CEOs of a national IT company, a major finance company and a land developer, venture capitalists, hedge fund managers and the creator of Goldman Sachs’ prime brokerage division—took private tours with the captain of the yacht. Smallridge is also working with former hedge fund CIO Dr. Rainford Knight to develop a club for local investment managers called SocialAlpha that encourages bankers in Palm Beach County’s ritzy social scene to get to know each other. Even Florida governor Rick Scott has gotten involved, sending personal letters to friends and prospects from the Northeast (the governor is a former Greenwich resident and businessman) to convince them of Florida’s merits. Smallridge and Governor Scott are hoping to induce a snowball effect, and so far, it seems to be working. Every financier who moves south chips away at the primary reason to remain near New York City—the fact that everyone else is there. That’s not to say it’s been easy. Florida is still Florida, and popular opinion has not been kind. Even Palm Beach, which has for the most part dodged the insults hurled at the rest of the state, is known for its residents’ apocalyptically bad driving and worse Hawaiian shirts. “There was a fair amount of trepidation,” says Al Rabil III, managing partner and CEO of Kayne Anderson Real Estate Advisors, who made the move from Armonk, New York, with 20 coworkers this summer. “But once everybody got past the stereotypes and actually came and looked, that changed.” He says most of his employees weren’t looking for bottle service and models anyway. The majority of those who have reached the upper echelons of financial management are married with children, and the appeal of a semi-tropical paradise with luxury restaurants, year-round recreation, and sophisticated socializing in a community far more tight-knit than Manhattan (yes, that’sDonald Trump over there) is not lost on them. Porter’s tour of Billionaire’s Row was part of a modified version of one of the Business Development Board’s red-carpet tours that I took as part of researching this story. I ate breakfast at the clubby Top of the Point restaurant with some of the area’s prominent financiers. A waiter in a captain’s outfit served lobster rolls while a CPA, a lawyer and the executive director of the Palm Beach County Education Commission touted the area’s benefits. I surveyed real estate and office space surrounded by miles of water without once having my foot stepped on by a tourist. You can see how all this might sway someone who’s on the fence. Exploring the sugary beaches of South Florida, one starts to wonder why Wall Streeters would be on the fence at all. Between the smiling locals and the shopping on Worth Avenue, the Hiaasen-esque stereotypes recede. What remains are the facts: Take-home pay is higher, commutes are shorter, and it’s just as fabulous as Manhattan, at least for four months of the year. Meanwhile, no one in Florida even owns an ice scraper. With the Internet allowing more and more money managers to perform their work from nearly anywhere, there are few reasons not to make the move. “Initially, it was a way to play golf and keep the wife and kids happy,” says Brett Langbert, managing director and head of sales at I.A. Englander &amp; Co. “But once we moved down, it became a quality-of-life issue. There are unlimited things the kids can do outside. I have to tell you, my wife and I are so happy we haven’t had to go to one of those indoor bouncy-castle places since we got here.” RELATED: The Rise of L.A.’s Booming Start Up CultureSingapore’s Rising—and Rich—Ex-Pat Community10 Places to Eat, Drink, and Be Seen in Miami This article originally appeared at DuJour.  Copyright 2014. Follow DuJour on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
The first is that it’s all local issues – no single macro story explains the depth of the sell off. Some examples (and why they are individually no big deal):  + Turkey is facing big domestic political/economic problems – it’s no surprise that some of the ‘air’ is coming out of the currency, bonds and equities that were so recently loved. All in, Turkey is now cheap – one should buy this dip. + South Africa is facing labor issues. This explains the drop in the Rand. This is not a ‘contagion’ story. It’s an isolated case. + Brazil is temporarily suffering from some weakness in other EM markets. But Brazil is a ‘special’ case – this is the land of the future. + Argentina’s deval is a good thing. Every time that Argentina has hit a wall over the past 30 years they have gone through this, and came out strong. Buying this dip will be a moneymaker. + Japan is going to ‘Whip Deflation’ in 2014. The coming 40% increase in the national sales tax is not going to be a speed bump at all. The (still) cheap currency that has been engineered is about to trigger an export boom. Japan has the ‘Platinum Coin’ option, and it will use it to eliminate the debt problem. + Europe is really in ‘recovery mode’ this time.  All the evidence you need to confirm this is that Spanish ten-year bonds were sold the other day (in size – E13b) at a dirt cheap 3.75%. The offering was 3Xs oversubscribed. + The ‘worst case’ in Puerto Rico will never be seen. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew will ape Mario Draghi and pledge that PR will not default. There’s big money to be made in PR bonds. + China’s latest ‘blip’ in funding costs is going to go away as of Feb. 1 (New Year). The fact that there will be a default of a Wealth Management product in a few days is well known – it’s already in Friday’s market print. China Inc. will not allow defaults to spread. And what’s all the complaining about? GDP of 7.5% is in the cards. + The US is going to have the best year of GDP growth in years. The higher corporate top line/earnings that will follow this economic spurt will keep multiples expanding. Janet Yellen has confirmed that she’s going to keep the short end at zero for years to come, so the Fed’s put is alive and well. Buy this dip! + The US picture is bright because of all those new holes that are being pounded into the ground from Colorado to Pennsylvania. For the first time in decades crude is a short. $75 WTI is in our future. As this evolves, there will be no meaningful consequence to Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, Indonesia and it will not hurt Mexico a bit. The “spin” on the foregoing issues have the same theme. They are isolated issues that are (for the most part) not really interconnected. Yes, those issues are causing some markets to adjust, but there is no case to be made for a single source of the global puke-out. And anyway, there is a positive side to all of this. But there is another take on this story. All of the issues that are emerging have one common thread – It’s the Fed’s Taper that is behind all the uproar. Is this possible? Can a relatively small adjustment in the supply and demand equation for the US bond market be responsible for the rout? I think the answer is “Yes”. The real question is what does Janet Yellen think is behind the global sell off.  I’m as certain that I can be that Ms. Yellen is itching for an excuse to extend (expand) QE. QE is, after all, her ‘baby’. Next weeks’ Fed meeting is supposed to bring us another notch down in the QE monthly purchases – at least that is what the WSJ’s Jon Hilsenrath told us a few days ago (link). Given what has happened since then, the possibility of a Fed ‘surprise’ is now a distinct possibility. Yellen could fall back on the ‘data dependent’ theme, and opt for a pause in the Taper. This translates to a continuation of QE at the rate of $75B a month for a bit longer. What might be the consequences if Yellen does a U-turn on the Taper?  The hoped for result would be a rapid turnaround for the EM markets, and with that, the US market would quickly revert to green. Happy days would be here again. There are enough people who believe in the magic of QE that a suspension of the Taper might be sufficient to turn the global capital markets back to stability (Yellen is on top of the list). But that outcome is by no means assured – a delay in the Taper could backfire. The difference between QE of $75B a month versus $65B is meaningless. The markets are not that dumb – it will just take a few days for markets to reach this conclusion. We have only two scenarios:  1) Yellen opts for a continuation of the Taper and we have an immediate blowout in the EM economies/markets or,  2) She delays the Taper and holds QE at $75B for “a few more months”. The next leg down in markets would start in less than a week as reality/disappointment set in. Both of these outcomes have a bad ending. Either way, the concept of the “Fed Put” is about to be tested. Seat belts should definitely be worn (tightly) next week. FREE AppDownload
BEIJING (Reuters) - China's commerce ministry called on the United States on Sunday to stop anti-dumping investigations into imports of solar power products from China, expressing "serious concern" and vowing to defend its producers. U.S. trade officials on Thursday opened investigations into imports of certain solar power products from China and Taiwan, a move that could have a major impact on the nation's fast-growing solar market. The U.S. Department of Commerce said it initiated antidumping duty and countervailing duty investigations, which will assess whether the products are being sold in the United States below their fair value, or if their manufacturers receive inappropriate levels of foreign government subsidies. "The Chinese side expresses serious concern," the commerce ministry said in a statement on its website. "China urges the United States again to carefully handle the current ... investigations, be prudent in taking measures and terminate the investigation proceedings." China will assess the impact on its solar industry and "resolutely defend" itself through various mechanisms, the ministry said. The investigations were sparked by a complaint at the end of last year by the U.S. unit of German solar manufacturer SolarWorld AG &lt;SWVG.DE&gt;. The company at the time said it was seeking to close a loophole in a prior trade case that enabled Chinese solar panel producers to evade duties by using cells manufactured in other countries, mainly Taiwan. The Commerce Department investigation and a parallel inquiry by the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) could open the door to expanding duties on some imported solar panels. In October 2012, the U.S. set steep duties on billions of dollars of solar products from China, but turned down pleas to expand the scope of its order to include Chinese panels made with non-Chinese solar cells. In response, many Chinese module producers simply began sourcing cells from Taiwan. The ITC is to make a preliminary ruling on whether there is a reasonable indication that imports from China or Taiwan materially injure, or threaten to injure, the local industry by February 14. A negative finding would stop the investigations. If the ITC determines that the imports could be hurting the domestic industry, the Commerce department is to make preliminary determinations about subsidies in March and dumping in June. (Reporting by Sui-Lee Wee) FREE AppDownload
Stephen Brashear/Getty ImagesWant a job that pays well and will have plenty of openings in the next decade? Consider one of these occupations. Business Insider compiled a ranking of the best jobs of the future based on how well they pay and how much they are projected to grow in the coming years. We took the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics' projections for the number of new jobs created between 2012 and 2022 and the 2012 median annual wage for each occupation and ranked them based on a combination (the geometric mean) of the two figures.  To focus this list on higher-quality jobs, we ranked only occupations with median wages higher than the 2012 median wage for all workers, which is $34,750. We used the total number of new jobs projected by 2022 rather than the percent rate of growth for the occupations, since some specialized occupations are expected to see steep growth but will provide a relatively tiny amount of job openings. FREE AppDownload
DAVOS, Switzerland (Reuters) - Just as they were getting their swagger back, the global elite stumbled last week on an emerging market sell-off that served as a reminder of the risks the global economy still faces. Veterans of the annual World Economic Forum in Davos seized on the wobble as a warning that expectations for a smooth upswing were misplaced, and that recovery would likely be volatile and uneven. The euro zone crisis is out of its acute phase and growth is returning across the developed world but a revival fuelled largely by vast amounts of new central bank money is a capricious one. The prospect of the U.S. Federal Reserve turning off its money taps this year, combined with political troubles in several emerging markets, drove last week's sell-off and exposed some of the unresolved problems in both developing and advanced economies. "I hear way too much optimism now," Larry Fink, CEO of investment group BlackRock, told the forum. "I think the experience of the marketplace this week is going to be indicative of this entire year. We are going to be in a world of much greater volatility." The return of growth in the United States, Japan and Europe masks festering problems from chronic youth unemployment to skills shortages and rising inequality that dampened any hubris in Davos. Tech executives were exuberant about breakthroughs that are revolutionising production, healthcare and communication but others warned those advances may kill jobs. CEOs in Davos complained more vociferously than ever about a lack of talent for hire despite sky-high unemployment in rich and poor countries alike. In the West, too many young people are graduating from expensive colleges with high debts and the wrong skills, while in developing countries a big majority are not achieving their economic potential. Worldwide unemployment hit nearly 202 million in 2013, an increase of 5 million compared with a year earlier, the International Labour Organization reported last week. Joe Kaeser, chief executive of German engineering giant Siemens, questioned whether the world was really seeing an economic recovery at all. "Do we feel good because what we see is good?" he asked. "Or do we feel good because we just have eased the pain? How many jobs have we created? How many of those millions and millions of jobless people in Europe have we put into jobs?" GLOBAL SHIFT The year ahead will witness a marked shift in the balance among the world's main growth engines, with the United States and other developed economies contributing more and emerging markets somewhat less than before. Reduced Fed bond buying will reverse the liquidity that has flooded into higher-yielding emerging markets assets. "We expected this year to be a volatile year for EM as the Fed tapers," Mexican Finance Minister Luis Videgaray said, adding that volatility "will happen throughout the year as tapering goes on". Despite particular worries in countries like Argentina and Turkey, CEOs are still determined to tap into the growing middle classes of the new mega-cities of Asia, Latin America and Africa. But they are becoming more selective. The notion of lumping together diverse economies like Brazil, Russia, India and China has gone. BlackRock's Fink said the Fed's tapering was just an excuse for turmoil in some emerging markets. The real cause was "bad policy" in the countries affected. Renault-Nissan chief Carlos Ghosn, whose company has car plants in many emerging markets, said: "You have to be ready when you invest in emerging markets for ups and downs." In the short term, investors are braced for more downs. "We are on the cusp of a slowdown in emerging markets," said Scott Gordon of Taconic Capital Advisors. "There is a higher proportion of developed market growth that will drive the global economy." COMPLACENCY RISK Yet advanced economies also have work to do to put their houses in order. "Complacency is both the positive and the negative of Davos this year," said John Studzinski, global head of Blackstone Advisory Partners. "On the one hand, we're not looking at the break-up of the euro zone anymore and people are more relaxed. "On the other hand, people are not paying attention to things they need to, like the education reform that is needed to resolve mismatches in the workforce, particularly in Europe and the United States." Even as headline growth numbers improve, few citizens are feeling the recovery. A survey by consulting group Alix Partners of 6,000 adults in six European countries conducted in mid-January showed 71 percent of those questioned saw the economy staying the same or getting worse over the next year. Christine Lagarde, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, warned policymakers of "some of the old risks that have not yet been completely fixed", added to which is the threat of deflation in Europe. A case in point is a European Union plan to curb banks' ability to take market bets with their own money, which Germany and France have attacked, warning in a paper seen by Reuters that it could jeopardise a delicate revival. In some cases, European policymakers cannot even agree on the problems they should be tackling. German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble publicly disagreed with EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn's view that prolonged low inflation in the euro zone would make necessary economic rebalancing harder. Schaeuble called that view "nonsense". Both Rehn and French Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici said the European Parliament could still "improve" a complex system for winding up failed banks agreed by the EU last month. Schaeuble said there was little scope for change without breaching EU treaties. Joe Jimenez, chief executive of Swiss drugmaker Novartis, said the conversation at Davos had shifted from five years of angst over financial crisis to talk of economic recovery, but companies were still hesitant about the levels of investment which could drive lasting growth. "If we had the certainty I think you would see more and more companies around the world leaning forward in terms of investment," he said. (Additional reporting by Alessandra Galloni and Paul Taylor. Editing by Paul Taylor and Mike Peacock) FREE AppDownload
If this bubble is about to burst, then once again Fed officials didn’t see it coming. They’ve been aware of the possibility, but minimized its likelihood. Obviously, they once again are failing to learn from history, which shows that easy credit conditions always lead to speculative bubbles that inevitably burst. Let’s review what Fed officials said (or did not say) on this subject: 1) FRB Vice Chair Janet Yellen. On April 16, 2013, Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen spoke at a conference on monetary policy sponsored by the IMF. In her remarks, she briefly speculated about speculation, but concluded that there is nothing to worry about: Some have asked whether the extraordinary accommodation being provided in response to the financial crisis may itself tend to generate new financial stability risks. This is a very important question. To put it in context, let’s remember that the Federal Reserve’s policies are intended to promote a return to prudent risk-taking, reflecting a normalization of credit markets that is essential to a healthy economy. Obviously, risk-taking can go too far. Low interest rates may induce investors to take on too much leverage and reach too aggressively for yield. I don’t see pervasive evidence of rapid credit growth, a marked buildup in leverage, or significant asset bubbles that would threaten financial stability. But there are signs that some parties are reaching for yield, and the Federal Reserve continues to carefully monitor this situation. On March 4, in a speech titled, “Challenges Confronting Monetary Policy,” Yellen said that the Fed is watching out for risks in the financial system and that so far there is nothing to worry about: At this stage, there are some signs that investors are reaching for yield, but I do not now see pervasive evidence of trends such as rapid credit growth, a marked buildup in leverage, or significant asset bubbles that would clearly threaten financial stability. That said, such trends need to be carefully monitored and addressed, and the Federal Reserve has invested considerable resources to establish new surveillance programs to assess risks in the financial system. In the aftermath of the crisis, regulators here and around the world are also implementing. a broad range of reforms to mitigate systemic risk. With respect to the large financial institutions that it supervises, the Federal Reserve is using a variety of supervisory tools to assess their exposure to, and proper management of, interest rate risk. On January 4, 2013, Yellen spoke at a joint lunch of the American Economic Association / American Finance Association in San Diego. The word “risk” appears 82 times in her speech titled, “Interconnectedness and Systemic Risk: Lessons from the Financial Crisis and Policy Implications.” Her presentation was a general overview, without getting into any specifics. The risk of a bubble in emerging economies was not mentioned.  2) FRB Governor Jeremy Stein. In her March 4 speech, Yellen noted in a footnote that her colleague, Governor Jeremy Stein, had given a speech on February 7, 2013 in which he “discussed several areas in which a noticeable increase in risk-taking behavior has emerged.” He did not mention emerging economies. Rather, he focused on risks in the corporate bond market, but was reassuringly unconcerned about the potential adverse consequences for the financial system: Putting it all together, my reading of the evidence is that we are seeing a fairly significant pattern of reaching-for-yield behavior emerging in corporate credit. However, even if this conjecture is correct, and even if it does not bode well for the expected returns to junk bond and leveraged-loan investors, it need not follow that this risk-taking has ominous systemic implications. That is, even if at some point junk bond investors suffer losses, without spillovers to other parts of the system, these losses may be confined and therefore less of a policy concern. 3) Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke. In his press conference on September 18, 2013, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke was asked for his reaction to charges coming out of emerging economies that the Fed’s policies have been causing them financial distress. His initial response was that “we’re watching that very carefully.” Then, he went on to defend the Fed’s policies as good for everyone: The main point, I guess, I would end with, though, is that what we’re trying to do with our monetary policy here is, I think, my colleagues in the emerging markets recognize, is trying to create a stronger U.S. economy. And a stronger U.S. economy is one of the most important things that could happen to help the economies of emerging markets. And, again, I think my colleagues in many of the emerging markets appreciate that--notwithstanding some of the effects that they may have felt--that efforts to strengthen the U.S. economy and other advanced economies in Europe and elsewhere ultimately redounds to the benefit of the global economy, including emerging markets as well. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIn a couple of earlier discussions (here and here) we talked about a significant buildup of treasury short positions. Since then there are indications that a few of the larger direct players have been covering their short bond exposure, pushing treasury yields lower. If the emerging markets contagion (discussed here) persists, more short covering is expected. But what about the longer-term outlook for treasuries? As the Fed cuts its buying program, we are left with two major categories of purchasers - foreign and private domestic. Foreign buying is directly linked to growth in current account surplus of key US trading partners, particularly in Asia. And while nations like China and Japan hold enormous amounts of US government paper, it's unclear if they will return to the volumes of purchases from 5 years ago. For example the explosive growth in China's current account surplus through 2009 is no longer there, which should translate to a more modest rate of treasury buying.  Other emerging economies are not faring much better and in fact many are struggling to maintain export growth. As a result fewer dollars on a relative basis will be available to buy treasuries. The other group of foreigners who have been buying significant amounts of treasuries are the oil exporters. In fact some research links growth in the so-called "petrodollars" (proceeds from energy sales) to higher treasury purchases. But as the US reliance of foreign oil declines, fewer petrodollars should result in relatively smaller purchases of US bonds.  This means that foreign purchases of treasuries are unlikely to grow significantly from current levels. That leaves US domestic investors to pick up the slack left behind by the Fed and foreign buyers. Based on the projections from Sandler O’Neill, domestic buyers will be called upon to buy an increasingly larger share of government paper going forward.  Rising yields in the intermediate and possibly longer term is an inevitability - the only way to attract domestic buyers to this growing supply. Sandler O'Neill: - In light blue [in reference to chart above] we see the episodic role of foreign purchases, driven heavily by emerging markets’ swelling reserves as trade and current account surpluses exploded until 2006, followed by industrial market buying to escape several phases of the euro crisis. Contemplating the chart carefully. domestic private purchases in dark blue must now take up substantial net demand slack.  ... domestic private buying (retail and institutional) must essentially quintuple back to their levels during the financial crisis. This seems unlikely without additional yield And it's not just the longer term rates that will increase as the result of this shift to private domestic buyers. Sandler O'Neill points out that as the longer term rates rise, the Fed will be forced to raise the overnight rate. This may end up being less about the US employment situation and more about keeping the yield curve "steepness" (see post) from becoming extreme. One of the reasons short term rate adjustment will be an  imperative is the risk of a new buildup in the so-called carry trade. Sandler O'Neill: - This also leaves a quandary for short term interest rate policy. Should the 10-Year reach 4%, the spread over Fed Funds will be confronting its well-defined historical peak. In our view, the Fed would be highly likely to adjust the policy rate upwards in this situation to avoid further market distortions and a potential explosion in carry trade and other counterproductive rate arbitrage activity. If this is correct, short term interest rates might no longer be simply anchored to employment metrics. The Fed's taper, combined with weaker foreign purchases of treasuries, will leave private domestic investors to take on an increasingly larger portion of treasury purchases. The only way to attract more domestic buyers is with higher yields - which will ultimately result in rising rates across the curve. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerA vendor sells cooked noodles on a street in Xiangfan, Hubei province.For the better part of 20 years, China has been the world’s factory, and its low labor costs have helped tamp down inflation in developed nations by allowing them to import cheap, Chinese-made goods. The torrent of foreign direct investment (FDI) that flowed into mainland China—some $900 billion since 1990, according to United Nations data—helped finance factories along the southeastern coast that slaked the global thirst for inexpensive goods. It also underpinned phenomenal economic growth. The country’s GDP grew from $357 billion in 1990 to $9.3 trillion last year, a nearly thirty-fold increase in a single generation. But that growth also spurred deep social changes. Millions migrated from inland, rural provinces to coastal cities in search of manufacturing jobs, and some 300 million Chinese vaulted into the middle class. The net result: China’s days as the world’s low-cost factory are numbered. They’re going to be buyers now. That shift has picked up pace in the last five years, says Robert Prior-Wandesforde, Credit Suisse’s Head of Macroeconomic Research for Southeast Asia and India, who recently published a report entitled, “Asia: FDI Truths, Myths and Prospects.” The latest catalyst, of course, was the global financial crisis, the ensuing economic slowdown that sapped demand for China’s industrial output, and the immediate response from the country’s leaders—a huge dose of Keynesian stimulus. To a large extent, the strategy worked. Beijing was able to maintain domestic demand and strong economic growth during the worst of the global slowdown, while building infrastructure that in some cases has leapfrogged that of the West. China’s high-speed rail system, for example, may still be relatively small for such a large place, but it far outstrips what the United States has been able to build in the last 50 years. The country’s middle class remains vibrant, and a growing sense of national pride underpins an increasingly muscular foreign policy. But there are limits to what Keynesian spending can do, and there is an emerging consensus in China that the response to the financial crisis was excessive. The country’s new leaders, headed by President Xi Jinping, seem to have concluded that they can no longer rely on government spending, which has caused local government debt to soar, to underpin domestic demand. Nor can China rely on the rest of the world  to buy its goods with the same voracious appetite, despite the fact that developed economies are healing. That’s in part because China is becoming a more expensive place to make things. The same success that created a middle class roughly the size of America’s total population is also fueling increasing calls from working Chinese for change—from higher wages to policies that would improve access to healthcare and protect the environment. Higher wages mean more expensive goods. And retrofitting factories to meet stricter air and water pollution regulations isn’t going to be free, either. China also wants its own consumers to buy a greater share of the goods that previously went to buyers in Europe and the United States. Xi and his team made that clear during the Chinese Communist Party’s Third Plenum in November 2013, where they released a list of changes including pledges to bring the economy to “a new stage of development.” Judging from increases to the minimum wage announced so far this year in cities such as Shenzen (13 percent) and Yangzhou (15.6 percent), which would in theory stimulate domestic demand, the country’s leaders appear to be following through. When you sum it all up, China is on the way to becoming a self-sustaining economy, says Prior-Wandesforde. At the same time, he cautions that it will take years to effect the changes that will convince the Chinese to sharply reduce their notoriously high savings rate, such as providing a more comprehensive social safety net. Nonetheless, there is certainly a demonstrable and growing demand for consumer goods from a significant portion of the population. Out of nowhere, China has become one of the world’s fastest growing markets for wine—imports jumped from around $50 million in 2004 to more than $350 million in 2009, according to Chinese customs data. They’re buying big-ticket items, too: According to the International Road Federation, the number of vehicles per 1,000 people in China jumped from 48 to 57 in 2010 alone. And there is plenty of room for the domestic economy to grow. Per capita income in China was just $6,091 in 2012, compared to $51,479 in the United States the same year, according to the World Bank. That potential has not escaped the attention of foreign investors, who believe China’s domestic economy will provide significant profits down the road. Although net FDI in mainland China dropped to 4 percent of domestic GDP in 2012, the lowest level since 1990, that’s more due to the fact that China’s outward investment has been rising since the mid-2000s than any serious drop-off in foreign investor interest. Indeed, inward FDI of $121 billion in 2012 hit  a record high of 3.7 percent of the global total. While Prior-Wandesforde cautions that it is difficult to confirm where those funds are going, he thinks we’re likely seeing the dawn of a second wave of foreign investment in China—this time, focusing on Chinese consumers. Not only that, a growing portion of the export-driven torrent of FDI that used to flow into China is moving elsewhere as well, to now-lower-costAsian countries such as Laos, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Vietnam. China will likely hang onto higher value-added manufacturing—think auto parts or precision machinery—but in the future, your jeans are unlikely to be made in Guangdong. FREE AppDownload
AP/Charles KrupaJust as likely to climb up the ladder.A new study from Harvard looking at mobility has found that, contrary to popular belief, a child’s chance of moving up the income ladder has not been getting worse in the United States. However, the "Equality of Opportunity" study — based on a treasure trove of tax data — shows that the U.S. ranks consistently lower than most developed countries when it comes to mobility. From the New York Times: The study found, for instance, that about 8 percent of children born in the early 1980s who grew up in families in the bottom fifth of the income distribution managed to reach the top fifth for their age group today. The rate was nearly identical for children born a decade earlier. Among children born into the middle fifth of the income distribution, about 20 percent climbed into the top fifth as adults, also largely unchanged over the last decade. Things haven't gotten worse, but one of the study's authors told the Times that the odds of escaping poverty are only half as high in the U.S. as in highest-ranked countries for mobility such as Denmark. "Although rank-based measures of mobility remained stable, income inequality increased substantially over the period we study," according to the study. "Hence, the consequences of the 'birth lottery' – the parents to whom a child is born – are larger today than in the past." This visualization from the study shows how the "rungs" of the income ladder have grown further apart (that's inequality at work) but a child's chance at actually climbing those rungs hasn't changed. Equality of Opportunity FREE AppDownload
