Thomson ReutersA view shows the Standard & Poor's building in New York's financial district(Reuters) - Standard &amp; Poor's Ratings Services is nearing a settlement with regulators over their investigation of how the company graded real-estate bonds, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter. The proposed deal, which could be reached as early as next month, is a joint settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and Massachusetts Attorney General Martha Coakley, the newspaper reported. (http://on.wsj.com/1tiyOP6) The settlement could involve a suspension of S&amp;P for several months or even a year from rating some deals and a fine of at least $60 million, the Journal said. S&amp;P spokeswoman Catherine Mathis, representatives at the SEC, the NY AG's office and Coakley's office could not be reached for comment outside regular U.S. business hours. In October, S&amp;P's parent McGraw Hill Financial Inc said it was in "active" settlement talks with federal and state regulators over its ratings on six commercial mortgage-backed securities and took a $60 million charge in the third quarter for a possible accord. S&amp;P suffered a huge blow to its commercial mortgage-backed securities business in 2011, after a major error on a $1.5 billion deal caused its market share to shrink. It isn't clear whether S&amp;P will be asked to admit wrongdoing, the Journal said. The U.S. Department of Justice sued S&amp;P for $5 billion in February 2013, accusing it of issuing inflated ratings before the 2008 financial crisis to win more fees from issuers, and failing to downgrade debt backed by mortgage-backed securities fast enough. That lawsuit remains pending. The rating agency also faces related lawsuits by many U.S. states. Its main U.S. rivals, Moody's Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, do not face similar lawsuits.   (Reporting by Supriya Kurane in Bengaluru; Editing by Sunil Nair) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsComing into 2014, Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus was one of the most bullish voices on Wall Street, making him one of the most accurate strategists in this surprisingly strong year. For 2015, strategists are expecting stocks to move even higher, and again, no one is more bullish than Stoltzfus.   "We have initiated a target for the S&amp;P 500 at the end of 2015 at 2,311," he wrote. Courtesy of Oppenheimer, we've included the key slides from Stoltzfus' brand-new monthly presentation. Thumb through them carefully if you want to better understand what's going on in this bull's head. Thanks to Oppenheimer &amp; Co. for giving us permission to feature this presentation. FREE AppDownload
Tokyo (AFP) - Japan's factory production suffered a surprise drop and inflation continued to slow in November, official data showed Friday despite Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's pro-spending policy blitz to stoke growth. November industrial production fell 0.6 percent from the previous month, the industry ministry said, against a market forecast for a 0.8 percent rise. "Industrial production fluctuates indecisively," the ministry said in a monthly report, leaving unchanged its overall assessment despite the downturn after two months of rises. Separate data showed core consumer inflation continued to slow in November. Inflation, excluding volatile prices of fresh food, slowed to 2.7 percent from 2.9 percent in October, according to data from the internal affairs ministry. Prices rose from year-earlier levels largely because the government raised sales tax from 5.0 percent to 8.0 percent on April 1, which drove up retail prices. Adjusted for the tax increase, the nationwide core consumer-price index rose 0.7 percent from a year earlier in November, the lowest since September 2013. The reading was far short of 2.0 percent inflation targeted by the Bank of Japan. After taking office in late 2012, Prime Minister Abe launched a policy blitz which meshes government spending with massive monetary easing by the central bank and reforms to the highly regulated economy.  The pro-spending growth bid, dubbed "Abenomics", has stalled as the April hike in the sales tax dented consumer spending. The prime minister delayed the second tax hike planned for next year to 2017.  The tax rises are aimed at paying down Japan's enormous national debt, but they have put Abe in a tricky position as he tries to balance them with his pro-spending growth plan. Millions of shoppers launched a last-minute buying binge on everything from cars and washing machines to televisions and alcohol, before the April 1 increase. The internal affairs ministry on Friday also said household spending fell 2.5 percent year-on-year in November while the jobless rate stayed unchanged at 3.5 percent.   FREE AppDownload
Moscow (AFP) - The plunge of the ruble hasn't left only Russians shell shocked -- foreign workers from traders to maids are considering bailing out as Moscow turns from an El Dorado into a financial black hole. The phenomenon is not quantifiable nor is there anything to indicate an exodus of expatriates is under way, but many admit to considering whether it is time to leave Russia after the ruble shed a quarter of its value in a couple of days last week. While the ruble has recovered somewhat, it is still down some 40 percent against the dollar and euro this year, leaving many in a precarious financial position. Joy left her three young children in Manila earlier this year to cash in on the high wages offered by well-to-do Muscovites to clean their apartments. "When I arrived in April, I was paid 1,500 rubles, or 42 dollars (30 euros), for four hours of housecleaning," said the 28-year-old. "Today, for the same work, it comes out to just 20 dollars (16 euros)."  She had been lured here from the Philippines by friends who had been working in Moscow. "They told me the ruble was very stable and there wasn't as much competition as in other cities," said Joy. She had been sending home up to two-thirds of her earnings to support her family in one of Southeast Asia's poorest countries. "My goal was to have saved up enough to pay for my oldest son to continue his studies and buy a moto-taxi for my husband so he would have a job," said Joy. "I also wanted to repair the roof of my parents' house ... but today I realise that is impossible." Now, she said, "I don't earn enough to send home for them to survive. My parents don't understand, they think I'm working less, and I feel guilty." Joy is comparatively lucky to be getting paid at all as many migrant labourers, particularly those from former Soviet republics who work on construction sites, are not.  "Employers have now stopped paying altogether, referring to the crisis," said Anara Beisheyeva, a lawyer for Migration and Law, an organisation that works with migrant labourers in Russia.  "They tell them: 'there is no money, we are closing'," said Beisheyeva. "People are being left with nothing." She said for the moment most migrant labourers were sticking around, hoping for a quick end to the crisis rather than returning home with empty pockets. But even buying the ticket home could soon be out of reach for some, as the prices of plane tickets are set in dollars. "They are becoming more and more expensive while I am earning less and less money," said Joy. "I'll have to decide quick or I might end up being marooned in Moscow. At the other end of the social ladder, a French trader in his 30s regrets having taken up a job in Moscow with a Russian bank at the end of September. "They offered me a good salary and big bonus," said Olivier. "I told myself this was the opportunity to work in a dynamic market that has been growing for four years and that it is a good idea to leave Europe which is stagnating." But just two weeks after his arrival, Olivier was disillusioned with his ruble salary that was quickly losing value in euro terms. If the trader thought he'd see "double-digit inflation quickly compensated with regular raises" to his salary, Olivier said he "never expected a Black Monday every day." The term is shorthand for a market crash, and traders in Moscow have taken to using Black Tuesday for the day last week when the ruble shed 20 percent of its value, shooting to over 80 to the dollar and 100 to the euro. "It's clear, the Russians are selling all of their rubles, and when locals abandon their currency it is time for foreigners to leave," said Olivier, adding he was ready to buy his plane ticket home. "I will be the first to leave because I am single and have no children, but the others won't be far behind." FREE AppDownload
SEOUL (Reuters) - Global smartphone leader Samsung Electronics Co Ltd is planning a new product launch next year based on its own Tizen operating system, the South Korean giant's strategic push to free itself from Android and blaze its own software path. But after years of development and a handful of Tizen-powered smartwatches and cameras, the only product confirmed for a 2015 launch so far is a TV set. While that may impress designers of smart homes, Samsung's failure to release a handset based on its own operating system is fuelling skepticism about its ability to build a meaningful software alternative to Apple Inc's iOS and Google Inc's Android in the all-important mobile sector. "To be honest the software that Samsung has made on its own so far have not been very good ... I have not yet seen anything to suggest that Samsung has become competitive in the software space," said Lee Min-hee, analyst at brokerage IM Investment and Securities. Developers say that until there is a meaningful user base for Tizen they will have little incentive to make innovative software applications for the system, deemed crucial if Samsung is to convince wary consumers to try it out. "I see it (Tizen) as very similar to Android but without the gigantic user base," said Brazil-based Eduardo Ribeiro, founder of app developer Kazoowa.com. "With that, it is hard to find benefits in developing for Tizen." Samsung's communications on the new system have only raised doubts further. The company announced and then scrapped plans for a Tizen phone launch in Russia during the third quarter, citing the need to "further enhance the Tizen ecosystem". Meanwhile source-based media reports have suggested for some time that a Tizen phone launch is imminent in India. In the latest example, the Korea Economic Daily on Friday said a low-end Tizen smartphone would debut in India on Jan. 18, citing an unnamed company source. Samsung declined to comment on the report. "We have supported the Tizen platform for a long time and believe Tizen to be a good alternative mobile platform for consumers," the company said. Analysts say Tizen will struggle to make a dent in the smartphone world. Android and iOS had a combined 95.8 percent market share in July-September, according to Gartner, with Microsoft Corp's Windows platform trailing as a distant third at 3 percent. Samsung smartphones currently operate on Android. "It has been really tough for any other operating system to position itself against iOS or Android ... So for Tizen to succeed, it will need to bring a very compelling proposition to the market," said Kiranjeet Kaur, an analyst at research firm IDC. Samsung has more than 40,000 software development employees globally but its apps and content services have failed to stand out from the crowd, and the firm is winding back some projects. The company on Friday said its ChatON messaging app - one of Samsung's more recognizable services - will be shut down in February. Earlier this month it disbanded its media solution center in South Korea that was responsible for developing and launching software and content-related services. Samsung's ability to support Tizen in the smartphone world also may be diminishing, with the firm's global market share down annually for the third consecutive quarter in July-September, amid intensifying competition from Chinese rivals. Still, the tech giant is expected to press on with Tizen, particularly in the growing smart-home sector where the operating system's ability to run on devices with low computing power could be a big advantage. Plans for the launch of a Tizen-powered television next year, revealed by a senior Samsung executive last week, would be a welcome addition to the smart-home business. Samsung declined to elaborate on the launch. Samsung told Reuters in a statement it remained "committed to developing the Tizen ecosystem with a wide range of Tizen-based product categories". (Editing by Tony Munroe and Stephen Coates) FREE AppDownload
There's a mythical phenomenon in the stock market that some historians refer to as the "Santa Claus Rally." Simply put, it's the observation that historically, stocks have tended to rally during the trading days between Christmas and New Year's. PNC Financial Services' Bill Stone writes about it: According to the 2015 Stock Trader’s Almanac, since 1969 the Santa Claus rally has yielded positive returns in 34 of the past 44 holiday seasons—the last five trading days of the year and the first two trading days after New Year’s. The average cumulative return over these days is 1.6%, and returns are positive in each of the nine days of the rally, on average. Nevertheless, each year there is at least one day of declines. Alternative research over a longer period confirms the persistence of these trends: According to historical data going back to 1896, the Dow Jones Industrial Average has gained an average of 1.7% during this seven-day trading period, rising 77% of the time. So, why does this happen? Who knows? According to Stone, some popular explanations: year-end tax-related portfolio adjustments; optimism during the holiday season; and short-sellers being on vacation. Frankly, none of those rationals are not worth betting on. If there's any explanation for the trend, it may just be that stocks just tend to go up on average. FREE AppDownload
A few years after leaving Wall Street, Scott Mead, a former top Goldman Sachs investment banker, made a remarkable discovery while moving some boxes from his attic. Or rediscovery, that is.  Mead, who is known for advising Vodafone's nearly $200 billion takeover of Mannesmann, brought down boxes of old his photographs, negatives and cameras that had not been touched in years. "I was aware it was sort of the physical baggage--the physical manifestation of some baggage we all park in our brains.  So I brought these down just partly out of curiosity, partly for some inexplicable reason." He described this rediscovery process to us as "the most overwhelming experience."  Click here to see his photos &gt; "It was like traveling back in time," he explained adding that it was like "getting to know another person."  Mead, who grew up passionate about photography, spent the next year educating himself again and editing and printing these photos he had taken more than 30 years ago.   "Since then, it has been a really amazing journey -- exhilarating, humbling and everything in between."  Eighteen months after bringing those boxes down, he put on an exhibition from several of the 8x10 negatives he found and printed called "Looking Back" at London's Hamilton Gallery.  Since then, he has done a number of exhibitions. Of the photographs he sells, 100% of the proceeds go to charity. Mead has kindly shared some of the photos from his "Looking Back" portfolio with us in the slides that follow. A few things you should know about the collection before you see them — The reason the images in this portfolio are round is because that's the way the human eye sees the world, Mead explained. This technique brings the viewer back to a more authentic perception of what an eye, or in this case the camera lens, sees.  The black around it, particularly with the portraits, helps create a framing, highlighting the center of the compositions, he told us.   Mead told us he first started taking photos at age 13 when he was given a press camera by his grandfather, who was a press photographer and journalist.   From there, he taught himself how to develop photographs and spent a huge amount of time in his parents' basement.   He was so enthusiastic about photography, that he studied it in high school and in college.  He focused on photography intensively until his 20s.   When he began his 22-year investment banking career, photography eventually moved to the back-burner. That being said, one of the key messages from his work is to highlight these beautiful moments that we might otherwise miss in our extremely busy lives. "They are about finding what are ordinary places, times of day, patterns of light or shapes which we often overlook in the day to day of all of our busy lives and making them special through composition, print quality and balance—and hopefully conveying a sense of tranquility and peace," he told Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
RBC Capital Markets The above map comes from RBC Capital Markets. It is a GDP heat map, showing the estimated growth rate of every country in the world for next year based on International Monetary Fund numbers. There are a few things to note here: Europe is looking pale. Argentina and Venezuela are in for a rough year. Brazil isn't looking so hot, either. Both Libya and South Sudan are set to have great year-over-year growth — although that's likely because war has had such drastic effects on them this past year. This is what the heat map for 2014 looks like:  RBC Capital Markets     
Stack Commerce One of the best features about Apple's new iPhones is their improved battery life. However, that doesn't mean you won't eventually run out of juice. Portable chargers can fill in the gap, but are annoying to carry around. Afterburner combines the convenience of an extra battery pack with a case. It provides 150% phone charge in your pocket. Many cases with batteries are bulky, but this one only adds less than half an inch to your phone's height, and less than one quarter of an inch to the depth, so you'll only add a little heft for a lot of power. The built in kickstand is great for watching movies or FaceTiming, and the Afterburner even charges using the same cord as your iPhone (Lightning) , so you won't need a micro-USB like other cases. Thanks to our friends at Stack Commerce, you can grab the Afterburner iPhone 6 battery cases for 26% off plus Free Shipping. Get 26% off the Afterburner iPhone 6+ Case ($44 + Free Shipping. US Only) Get 33% off the Afterburner iPhone 6 Case ($40 + Free Shipping. US  Only) Full Specs and more photos below: Stack CommerceAfterburner Kickstand Specs: Stack Commerce Get 26% off the Afterburner iPhone 6+ Case ($44 + Free Shipping. US Only) Get 33% off the Afterburner iPhone 6 Case ($40 + Free Shipping. US Only) Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
Oil prices have crashed since the summer. But oil price volatility is not new. Indeed, the price of WTI crude surged by 5% today alone. In a new note to clients, Goldman Sachs analysts offer this cool annotated chart of the history of crude oil prices. Goldman Sachs
15 RenwickA mock interior of 15 Renwick.This is the top for New York City. It's all downhill from here. A new condo building is going up in Manhattan's Hudson Square neighborhood — the triangle on the river between Tribeca, SoHo, and the West Village that has until recently been mostly commercial and industrial buildings. 15 Renwick isn't just any building: it's a steampunk-themed luxury development. Steampunk-themed. Luxury. Development.  What is steampunk? It's mostly a literary and artistic genre. Think Helena Bonham Carter in Sweeney Todd, but much less murderous, riding atop a floating, steam-powered sidecar. 15 Renwick American novelist Caitlin Kittredge described it as "sort of Victorian-industrial, but with more whimsy and fewer orphans," according to the steampunk movement's official website. An overly optimistic nostalgia for an earlier time ... where have we heard that before?  Condos are priced between $2 million and $7.5 million (with hefty maintenance fees, natch). The building's amenities include the regular: parking, roof deck, laundry. But there are also on-brand steampunk touches: a "high design boxing gym," a zen garden, and a 24-hour butler (listed as a feature in the lobby, so presumably more like a doorman in a puffy shirt?).  There's never been a clearer sign that 21st-century New York is nothing but an amusement park for the world's wealthy and their children. It has ceased to be a real place for the rest of us. The building's website is filled with model-like characters who appear to have just stepped off the set of Hollywood films, as if actually living in this building is also just a fantasy. Given the number of foreigners buying condos in New York at the moment, that it would be totally sold, but no one would actually live in this building is not all that far fetched. The developer joked to DNAinfo's Danielle Tcholakian that it was a building for "rich hipsters." Here's how the building is described on its website. Screenshot of 15renwick.com Let's talk about the fact that there are characters in an apartment building. Not staff, but characters. Not residents, but characters. Living in this building is all about not living a real life.  It is questionable that living in New York City these days bears any resemblance to reality.  It's more like this:  15 Renwick FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Inc.com In a clip on Inc.com, Cuban talks about the student loan bubble, which he says will burst and end badly for colleges. The end of the student loan bubble, Cuban says, will be like the housing bubble, where tuition collapses the way the price of homes collapsed.  These collapses will put colleges out of business. Cuban: "It's inevitable at some point there will be a cap on student loan guarantees. And when that happens you're going to see a repeat of what we saw in the housing market: when easy credit for buying or flipping a house disappeared we saw a collapse in the price housing, and we're going to see that same collapse in the price of student tuition, and that's going to lead to colleges going out of business." Cuban also talks about the impact student loan debt is having on the economy, saying that people burdened with student loans can't afford to spend money on anything other than the bare necessities.  There are a number of problems with the increasing cost of college both for the colleges themselves and the broader economy. Cuban's specific call for a cap on student loan guarantees, and a subsequent collapse in tuition prices, portends an ugly future for colleges in the U.S.  The full clip of Cuban can be seen here.  FREE AppDownload
All right, guys, New Year’s resolutions are coming up. There are a few grooming solutions that you might want to start early to get your look in shape for the holiday party season and the New Year! Social gatherings are more intimate occasions. That’s true not just emotionally, but also physically. People stand closely, look at screens and papers and other distractions less, and in general have way more time and inclination to look at the details of your appearance than you’re used to. That makes this the perfect time of year to fix some common grooming mistakes. Don’t feel bad if you’re making any or all of these — just take steps to fix them! Most are needs that don’t develop until after puberty, so none of us really got a chance to build the good habits early in life. Play catch-up now by identifying and eliminating these common grooming mistakes: There’s nothing wrong with a sweet ‘stache or a big ol’ beard, at least as long as your workplace allows them. But a messy one? No thanks. Trim the edges of beards and mustaches into shape on a daily basis. You know how guys without beards look scruffy and scraggly if they skip shaving for more than a day? That’s happening to the edges of your beard, too. You don’t need to do anything fancy on this one. Just go lightly over the edges of your facial hair with a trimmer and the appropriate guide comb, cutting everything back to a uniform length and making sure the outline (where the hair ends and naked skin begins) is nice and crisp. It’s the difference between “sexy lumberjack,” which is a fantasy, and “unkempt woodsman or maybe just a hobo,” which is more realistic but decidedly less appealing. You want to look like you’d be natural holding an axe, not a rusty shiv made from an old bean can. Trim your stubble?  Yes, men who sport the stubble look need to know how to keep it in check. Contrary to popular belief, the stubble and five o’ clock shadow is now a preference. In fact, a 2012 study from the University of New South Wales and a 2008 paper from Northumbria University studied the role of facial hair in women’s perceptions of men’s attractiveness.  Both studies found that women are more attracted to men with stubbly chins than those with clean-shaven faces. However, men who prefer this look must know how to maintain it.  To make stubble work, keep it trim. Just because you have stubble doesn’t mean you are off the hook for maintaining it. That’s what causes you to look sloppy. To avoid the hungover look, a well-kept stubble is a must.  Use a stubble guard or a shorter guide com when trimming your stubble. Does this one sound really pathetically nit-picky to you? Think again — eyebrows are actually one of your most important features. Human beings use them to express a wide range of emotions. A pair of cleanly-defined, fully separated eyebrows actually makes you a better talker — like in a literal, measurable way. You are communicating more clearly than the guys with out of control brows. That makes a couple minutes of at-home trimming one of the best time investments you’ll make this year. For the dedicatedly natty, eyebrow threading can do an even better job, but at the very least use some trimmers to tidy up the outline of each brow and make a clear separation above the bridge of your nose. Remember how Bert of Bert and Ernie from Sesame Street always came across as the more fussy, easily-flustered one? Yeah, part of that visual coding was his oversized, drawn-together eyebrows. Think about it.  So gross. So easy to avoid! It’s literally thirty seconds with a trimmer to remove this incredibly unsightly element from your face. Guys, remember: the taller you are, the more people are looking up your nose instead of at it. That means tall guys especially need to be vigilant about their nose hairs. Trim ‘em back so no one’s staring at those weird, scraggly danglers when they should be admiring your whole handsome face. And since all of us can safely expect to be taller than at least a few people, well…you get the point. Trim the nose hairs. Just do it. Same theory as nose hairs, although it’s now the side-on view you’re worried about rather than the straight-up view. But once again, we’re talking less than a minute to trim, every few days or weeks depending on your hair growth. Well worth the time. The general rule of thumb for both nose and ear hairs is straightforward: the ends shouldn’t be visible. Trim them back until they’re not. That means trimming the hairs off inside the rim of the relevant opening, but you don’t have to go any deeper than that. And with ears especially, you don’t want to — just trim the tips and call it a day. If you like to zone out with a newspaper while your barber does his thing, you may not have noticed the work he does along the back of your neck. Most haircuts involve neatening up the nape, which is the bottom outline where your haircut end, usually on the back of the neck. Guys with hairy backs will want to make sure their hairs aren’t creeping up to join the nape, or worse yet to be visible above the collar but below a naked, shaven strip of skin. FYI – any man can shave his neck at home with trimmers – the advantage here is you can work this 30 second job into your schedule and have the convenience of not having to travel across town for a touch-up before a special event. That keeps growth even and prevents the nasty “my back hairs and my haircut are engaged in trench warfare” divide along the back of the neck. Shaven smooth back there is the best way to go, from the point where your haircut ends all the way under your shirt collars. Men with side parts, take heed: your hair is not supposed to be curling around and sticking itself into your ears. If your hair is at the length where it starts invading your ears, use a little product to either slick it back or help it curve around the ears in a nice, natural-looking arch. Ideally, your whole ear should be visible on both sides, but if you want to hide some of it, do it with hairs that end behind or beneath the ear, not in or on it. If product isn’t doing the trick, it’s time to trim it up. The good news is that you don’t’ have to wait for your next barber visit to keep your hair looking clean or sharp. When the hair starts to go over your ears, it’s a warning sign to pull out a clipper and tidy things up. Well made clippers have a number of guide combs to clean up around your ears as well as cut and blend the back, sides and top of your hair. This gives you the opportunity to extend the life of you haircut. The best advice I can give you is: FREE AppDownload
 Morgan Stanley now has the hottest wealth-management division on Wall Street. To maintain that, you need to find top talent. It's harder than you might think. So we asked Morgan Stanley to send us a tough interview question, one that separates the men from the boys, or the women from the girls. This is a question that shows you how the bank wants its wealth managers to think. Here it is: "The client is always right. Describe three examples of when the client is wrong." "The question is a good one because it gets to the heart of what effective financial advisors do all the time, which is to prevent clients from taking actions that could be harmful to their financial well-being, while still maintaining a constructive relationship with the client," said Daniel Dibiasio, Morgan Stanley wealth management's head of Talent.  "It gives the interviewer insight into how a would-be financial advisor might think about and handle such a situation, and opens the possibility for role play that allows the candidates to show how they might please clients while still persuading them to consider consequences they may not have thought about and go in a different direction." From Dibiasio's response, you can probably already gather that there's no set answer to this one, but some are better than others. For example, a client may be wrong if they refuse to diversify their portfolio or take on too much risk. Some of this stuff is personal, too. A wealth manager may want to step in if a client isn't planning for a potential negative scenario within the family, like a child's spouse not being the best with money. All these responses reflect what wealth management is: a delicate balance between understanding your client as a person, understanding the market, and building a respectful relationship with everyone involved. Don't get stumped.    FREE AppDownload
 It has been a wild few days for global financial markets.  The ruble collapsed, Russia's central bank raised rates, and oil was all over the place, all while equity markets, bond markets, and currency markets around the world were seesawing back and forth. But what happens next in the global economy depends on one thing: the price of oil.  In a note to clients Tuesday, Capital Economics' John Higgins writes: "Looking ahead, the depth of Russia's problems and the consequences for the global financial markets will obviously depend on what happens next to the price of oil." Higgins writes that the current price — roughly $56 a barrel for West Texas Intermediate and $60 a barrel for Brent crude — should provide some support. But Higgins adds that he "wouldn't be surprised" if oil prices "fell further in the near term. If that were to happen, the last fortnight of 2014 could be a turbulent one indeed." Earlier Tuesday, Business Insider's Henry Blodget talked to Mark Dow about what's next for the global economy. Dow also centered his outlook on what happened next with oil, saying "the speed factor" of oil's price decline was "what has us most on edge. The speed of the price change is almost always more important than the level for our psychology." And so while the declining price of oil could have some positive effects for US consumers who are dealt cheaper gas prices as a result, both Dow and Higgins are skeptical on the net benefit of this.  Dow and Higgins both made similar points, that while there could be any number of direct causes, it is clear that something has changed in the investing landscape; the appetite for risk has significantly decreased in the past few weeks. And what happens next has everything to do with where oil goes from here.  Bloomberg.comThe orange line WTI crude over the past year. The green line is Brent.   FREE AppDownload
Touching The VoidIn 1985, two British climbers, Joe Simpson and Simon Yates, became the first to ascend the west face of Siula Grande, a 21,000-foot peak in the Peruvian Andes. What happened next is one of the most remarkable and inspiring survival stories ever. It's also an extraordinary example of self-reliance, decision-making under duress, and force of will. One of the climbers, Joe Simpson, wrote a book about the experience called "Touching The Void." In 2003, the story was made into a movie directed by Kevin Macdonald. The movie was narrated by Simpson and Yates, with actors re-enacting the events in Peru and the Alps. Using screenshots from the movie, I've told an abridged version of the story below. You can also buy the book or movie here, or watch the movie on Netflix. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Frank PolichThe second half of 2014 has been rough for stock market investors. We've seen two violent sell-offs. The first came when the S&amp;P 500 quickly tumbled 9.8% from its then all-time high of 2,019 on Sept. 19 to as low as 1,820 on Oct. 15. The second came when the S&amp;P plunged 5.1% from 2,079 ion Dec. 5 to 1,972 on Dec. 16. Because of the way our brains work, most of us worried about the possibility that this correction was turning into an outright market crash. Our instinct was to dump stocks. Surely, many investors sold and told themselves they would "wait out the volatility" on the sidelines. A confident few likely even shorted the market. However, history shows this is the most classic mistake investors make. So, kudos to those who held on to their long positions. "Corrections are part and parcel of the investment process, they come and go, and it is imperative to take a deep breath and realize that what is most important for building wealth is not 'timing' the market but rather 'time in' the market," David Rosenberg said on Oct. 14. The S&amp;P has surged back to record highs since Rosenberg made that prescient statement. "Time in" the market is crucial, especially when things get scary for investors. There's tons of data on this. We talk about it all of the time. Even the folks who sold the sell-off probably know about it. But let's revisit some of the data anyway. When volatility picks up, it's tempting to trade in and out of the market with the hope you'll protect your wealth. Unfortunately, this increases the risk you'll miss some of the best days in the market. And that can be very costly. JPMorgan Asset Management illustrated how much an investor's returns collapsed when they missed a few of the best days in the market. They found that if an investor stayed fully invested in the S&amp;P 500 from 1993 to 2013, they would've had a 9.2% annualized return. However, if trading resulted in missing just the ten best days during that same period, then those annualized returns would collapse to 5.4%. JP Morgan Asset ManagementMissing these days do so much damage because those missed gains aren't able to compound during the rest of the investment holding period. "Plan to stay invested," they recommend. "Trying to time the market is extremely difficult to do consistently. Market lows often result in emotional decision making. Investing for the long-term while managing volatility can result in a better outcome." Some of the worst days in the market follow down days in the market. That seems to make sense intuitively. However, some of the best single days in the market also follow some of the worst days. Here's a table from Wikipedia putting the S&amp;P 500's 20 worst days next to 20 best days. WikipediaThis is just the nature of how the stock market moves. Bear markets don't go straight down and bull markets don't go straight up. When you look closely, they are marked by good and bad days, good and bad weeks, and so on. During periods of volatility, the magnitude of up-moves are just as big as the magnitude of down-moves. So far, we've been largely talking about hypotheticals. Now, let's take a look at how bad we really are at investing. Last year, investment strategist Gerard Minack studied the timing and volumes mutual fund flows to see how investors' actual returns compared to movements in the market. As expected, he found that inflows became most aggressive as markets peaked and outflows ramped up when markets were near their lows. As a result, the dollar-weighted return of the investors' portfolios lagged the benchmark indexes by extremely wide margins. "As more money went in at high price levels, and money was withdrawn at low price levels, the dollar-weighted return was significantly less than the index return," Minack found. "A $100 lump sum investment made at the start of 1997 – a ‘buy-and-hold’ investment – would [in May 2013] be worth $150 (ignoring dividends). The dollar-weighted returns –which I have calculated assuming that the funds achieved the same return as the NASDAQ – would have lost 75%." Morgan StanleyIn other words, investors were just fantastic at being exposed to the market only when it was sliding. There are countless studies that deliver the same message as Minack. Richard Bernstein of Richard Bernstein Advisors recently shared the results of study comparing the annualized returns of around 20 asset classes over a 20-year period. It included the performance of the typical investor. "The performance of the typical investor over this time period is shockingly poor," Bernstein wrote. "The average investor has underperformed every category except Asian emerging market and Japanese equities. The average investor even underperformed cash (listed here as 3-month t-bills)! The average investor underperformed nearly every asset class." Ironically, this typical investor is actually underperforming the very assets they invest in. Richard Bernstein Advisors"They could have improved performance by simply buying and holding any asset class other than Asian emerging market or Japanese equities," Bernstein added. "Thus, their underperformance suggests investors’ timing of asset allocation decisions must have been particularly poor, i.e., investors consistently bought assets that were overvalued and sold assets that were undervalued." We're not proposing that we won't see the stock market fall again tomorrow or the next day. We certainly can't rule out the ever-present risk that the market could soon crash. But, that's just part of investing in the stock market. If you aren't prepared to lose tremendous amounts of value, you shouldn't be in stocks. And once you're in, you better be prepared for the volatility. Time and time again, investors aren't willing to put their "time in" the market when the market has the most wealth to offer. FREE AppDownload
Riyadh (AFP) - Saudi Arabia announced a 2015 budget with a huge deficit Thursday as the world's largest crude exporter begins to feel the impact of its own decision not to shore up oil prices. The government announced the $38.6 billion deficit in a statement read on state-run television, adding that it would nonetheless boost projected spending by tapping its vast financial reserves. The lead producer in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, Saudi Arabia has insisted the cartel will not move to strengthen global oil prices despite a drop of nearly 50 percent since June. OPEC has maintained a production ceiling of 30 million barrels per day, in a move analysts say is aimed at stifling competition from new market players with higher costs, in particular North American shale oil producers.  Saudi officials have vowed not to boost production no matter how low prices go, regardless of the impact on the country's coffers.  The budget announced for next year sees spending at 860 billion riyals ($229.3 billion) and revenues at 715 billion riyals ($190.7 billion). Projected spending is slightly higher than planned for this year, but revenues are 140 billion riyals lower than estimates for 2014, said the statement read after a cabinet session chaired by Crown Prince Salman bin Abdulaziz. The 2015 budget shortfall is the first deficit projected by the OPEC kingpin since 2011 and the largest ever for the kingdom. Over the past decade, Saudi Arabia overspent budget projections by more than 20 percent and if the trend is maintained next year, analysts say the deficit will be much higher. "I believe we are headed for a difficult year in 2015. I think the actual deficit will be around 200 billion riyals because actual revenues are expected to be lower than estimates," Saudi economist Abdulwahab Abu-Dahesh told AFP. "Spending in the budget is not in line with the sharp decline in oil prices," Abu-Dahesh said.  The finance ministry also announced the 2014 preliminary actual budget figures, saying it expects a deficit of 54 billion riyals ($14.4 billion) this year. It is the first actual budget shortfall since 2009. The ministry said that, according to the preliminary figures, revenues in 2014 were 22 percent higher than projected. But preliminary spending was at $293.3 billion, the highest in the kingdom's history and about $33 billion more than expenditures in 2013. The spending rise was due to huge expansion projects at Muslim holy sites in Mecca and Medina, an increase in spending on development projects and foreign aid, the finance ministry said. The price of oil, which makes up around 90 percent of public income in Saudi Arabia, has lost about half of its value since June due to a production glut, weak global demand and a stronger US dollar. Saudi Finance Minister Ibrahim al-Assaf said this month that Riyadh will continue massive public spending despite the sharp decline. In royal decrees issuing the budget, Saudi King Abdullah called for "rationalisation of spending" and for the "accurate and efficient implementation of the budget" in 2015. If oil prices remain at the current level of about $60 a barrel for benchmark Brent crude, Saudi Arabia is expected to lose half of its oil revenues of $276 billion posted in 2013. Oil income this year is expected at $248 billion. But the wealthy kingdom, which pumps around 9.6 million barrels per day, can easily tap into huge fiscal buffers, estimated at $750 billion, to meet the budget deficit. King Abdullah authorised the finance minister to draw from the reserves or to borrow to meet the deficit. Ratings agency Standard and Poor's lowered its outlook for Saudi Arabia to stable from positive following the slide in oil prices. But S&amp;P also affirmed its high ratings for Riyadh over the "strong external and fiscal positions" it has built up in the past decade. FREE AppDownload
Jeremy Grantham is not a believer in the shale fracking boom. Back in November, we highlighted Grantham's full quarterly letter to GMO clients, in which he said, among other things, that the US shale boom had been "a very large red herring." So while some say the fracking boom has helped keep oil prices low and aided the US on its path to energy independence, Grantham thinks it might have set us on a path to nowhere. "Its development has been remarkable," Grantham writes. "It will surely be seen in the future as a real testimonial to the sheer energy of American engineering at its best, employing rapid trials and errors — with all of the risk-taking that approach involves — that the rest of the world finds so hard to emulate. Similarly, it will always stand out as remarkable proof that, so late in the realization of the risks of climate change and environmental damage, the US could expressly deregulate such a rapidly growing and potentially dangerous activity." The overall thrust of Grantham's letter is that the world will soon be devoid of the resources it is going to need to sustain our current economic model, which over the past 150 or so years has been predicated on cheap energy, namely oil.  A concern Grantham has with fracking is that the boom hasn't been accompanied by any real concern as to the environmental damage it may be inflicting. But Grantham is also hugely skeptical on the potency of the shale boom because it doesn't address the problem of our need for cheap oil.  Grantham writes: Fracking "has not prevented the underlying costs of traditional oil from continuing to rise rapidly or the cash flow available to oil-producing countries like Saudi Arabia, Iran, and especially Venezuela from getting squeezed from both ends (rising costs and falling prices)." And as we saw last week, OPEC announced that it would not impose production cuts despite the sharp decline in oil prices seen over the past few months, and it seems unlikely that Grantham would be surprised by this.  Because if your national economy is chiefly predicated on exporting oil, you have made your bed and therefore must lie in it as oil prices drop.  Deutsche BankThe US shale boom, in one chart.But the US boom, which as Grantham notes has accounted for almost all of the increase in global oil production over the past several years, has been undertaken by companies, not countries. And so with an eye toward profit, Grantham writes, these companies "have drilled, as always, the best parts of the best fields first, and because the first two years of flow are basically all we get in fracking, we should have expected considerably better financial results by now. The aggregate financial results allow for the possibility that fracking costs have been underestimated by corporations and understated in the press."  And with a decline in oil prices set off by too much supply, it will be these companies that are forced to pare production, which will reduce supply, which will create — once again — expensive oil.  "The current fall in price does nothing to offset the squeeze on the total economy from rising costs," Grantham writes. "It merely transfers massive amounts of income from one subgroup (oil producers) to another (oil consumers), in a largely zero-sum game. FRED"Oil consumers tend to spend more and save less than oil companies so short-term impacts are favorable. But we should not be carried away with enthusiasm because the declining investment from the oil industry will lower future growth. When, as now, oil costs are still rising even as prices fall there is of course a particularly savage effect on the profits of oil companies, squeezed from both ends. "They must and will rapidly adapt by reducing expenditures and therefore oil production with the fairly obvious result that prices will rise again. The only longer-term price relief and net benefit to the economy will come when either we reverse recent history and start to find more oil more cheaply, which will be like waiting for pigs to fly, or when cheaper sources of energy displace oil." And so for Jeremy Grantham, nothing fundamental has changed about our relationship with oil: pigs still don't fly.  FREE AppDownload
ReutersRussian President Vladimir Putin toasts with ambassadors during a ceremony to hand over credentials at the Kremlin in Moscow, November 19, 2014.Russian President Vladimir Putin has scrapped New Year's holidays for government ministers because of the unfolding economic crisis. Putin told a televised government session on Thursday that Cabinet ministers "cannot afford" to go on holiday. Russian company employees throughout the country are entitled to holiday from Jan. 1 to Jan. 12 when Russians celebrate the New Year, the main holiday in Russia, as well as Orthodox Christmas on Jan. 7. Russia's economy, battered by low oil prices and Western sanctions, is set to enter recession next year for the first time in six years, while the ruble is now worth less than half of its value. Putin told Cabinet ministers on Thursday he expects them to keep the situation in check even during the holiday lull. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSWarren Buffett. In a speech at Columbia Business School, later adapted into an essay, Buffett introduced what he called, "The Superinvestors of Graham-and-Doddsville." Buffett writes: "The common intellectual theme of the investors from Graham-and-Doddsville is this: they search for discrepancies between the value of a business and the price of small pieces of that business in that market." And that's pretty much it. Buffett doesn't think about buying a stock; he thinks about buying a business.  APBenjamin Graham. In Buffett's essay, he asks readers to consider a group of investors who outperformed the S&amp;P 500 year in and year out. "In this group of successful investors that I want to consider," Buffett writes, "there has been a common intellectual patriarch, Ben Graham ... They have gone to different places and bought and sold different stocks and companies, yet they have a combined record that simply can't be explained by random chance." Buffett explains that the investors of Graham-and-Doddsville don't care when they buy stocks, or worry about a stock's beta or the "covariance in returns among securities." He says these investors are businessmen buying pieces of businesses, not traders buying stocks.  And the strategy seems to be working out OK: On Thursday, Class A shares of Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway eclipsed $200,000 per share for the first time, and $1,000 invested with Buffett in 1984 would've been worth $155,301.  And since 1969, the book value of Berkshire Hathaway — which Buffett acquired in 1964 — has beaten the S&amp;P 500 43 out of 44 years on a five-year rolling basis. Said more simply, the relative value of Berkshire Hathaway shares have been worth more than the S&amp;P 500 collectively every year but one.  Not to mention that Buffett's personal wealth is estimated by Forbes to be more than $66 billion. In July, we featured a chapter from Cullen Roche's new book, "Pragmatic Capitalism," which debunked the myth that "you too" can be like Buffett. You can't, of course. But Roche's point isn't that Buffett's ideas about investing aren't sound, just misunderstood. Many think Buffett was a simple "buy and hold" stock investor, but his investing is about way more than that — or way less, depending on how you look at it.  Buffett concludes his essay by writing that some may wonder why he is giving away this basic investment philosophy of a number of investors who have outperformed the market. Isn't he just giving away the secret? "I can only tell you that the secret has been out for 50 years," Buffett writes, "...yet I have seen no trend toward value investing in the 35 years I've practiced it. There seems to be some perverse human characteristic that likes to make easy things difficult. The academic world, if anything, has actually backed away from the teaching of value investing over the last 30 years. It's likely to stay that way. Ships will sail around the world but the Flat Earth Society will flourish. There will continue to be wide discrepancies between price and value in the marketplace, and those who read their Graham &amp; Dodd will continue to prosper." Indeed, all of the research continues to show that the vast majority of professional and retail investors are underperforming. The whole essay is embedded below.     FREE AppDownload
Learn how to tie ascot, once-around, and loop knots. This is the most useful information you'll learn this winter. So pay attention and stay warm. Produced by Matthew Stuart. Special thanks to Devan Joseph and Antonio Centeno. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Russia said its currency crisis was over on Thursday but warned that inflation is set to climb above 10 percent, adding to the problems facing President Vladimir Putin's government, as it fights its worst economic crisis since 1998. The ruble plunged to all-time lows last week on heavy falls in the price of oil, the backbone of the Russian economy, and Western sanctions over the Ukraine crisis that made it near impossible for Russian firms to borrow on Western markets. But it has since rebounded sharply after authorities took steps to halt its slide and bring down inflation, which after years of stability threatens Putin's reputation for ensuring the country's prosperity. Those measures included a hike in interest rates to 17 percent from 10.5 percent, curbs on grain exports and informal capital controls. "The key rate was raised in order to stabilize the situation on the currency market. ... That period has already, in our opinion, passed. The ruble is now strengthening," Finance Minister Anton Siluanov told the upper house of parliament on Thursday. He added that interest rates would be lowered if the situation remained stable. Standard &amp; Poor's credit ratings agency said this week it could downgrade Russia to junk as soon as January due to a rapid deterioration in "monetary flexibility". Keen to avert a downgrade, Russia said it had started talks with ratings agencies to explain the government's actions. Siluanov said the budget deficit next year would be "significantly more" than the 0.6 percent of gross domestic product originally planned. The ruble slumped to 80 per dollar in mid-December from an average of 30-35 in the first half of 2014. It has strengthened in the last few days to trade as strong as 52 per dollar on Thursday, in part thanks to government pressure on exporters to sell hard currency. Russians have tracked the exchange rate closely since the collapse of the Soviet Union, when hyper-inflation wiped out their savings over several years in the early 1990s. Russia imports large amounts of food, high-tech equipment and cars. As the ruble weakens it has to pay more for its imports, which pushes up inflation at home and in turn encourages people to protect their earnings by buying dollars, thereby adding to the pressure on the rouble. Putin's economic aide Andrei Belousov said on Thursday that annual inflation could reach around 11 percent by the end of 2014 - surpassing the psychologically important 10 percent mark for the first time since the 2008/09 global financial crisis. Prices for some goods, such as beef and fish, have risen 40 to 50 percent in recent months after Russia slapped an import ban on certain Western food products in retaliation for European Union and U.S. sanctions over Ukraine. Bank officials say they saw a spike in withdrawals from ruble deposits in mid-December as Russians rushed to convert their savings into hard currencies. The deputy head of top state lender Sberbank, Alexander Torbakhov, said this week that demand for hard currencies spiked to five times usual levels last week, when the rouble plummeted to all-time lows. But he added that the bank had seen depositors returning in large numbers after most lenders ramped up their deposit rates, some offering as much as 20 percent in annual interest. "We have managed to cope (with deposit withdrawals). Can the situation be repeated? Yes, it can," Torbakhov said, declining to discuss what could trigger a new flurry of withdrawals. Analysts say that apart from oil prices, they will watch ratings agency decisions. S&amp;P warned this week there was at least a 50 percent chance it would cut Russia's sovereign rating below investment grade within 90 days. Moody's ratings agency warned this week that Russia's GDP could contract by 5.5 percent in 2015 and 3 percent in 2016 due to weaker oil prices and the ruble's slide.  (Writing by Dmitry Zhdannikov; Editing by Hugh Lawson) FREE AppDownload
Here is a review of the Ten Economic Questions for 2014.There are always many questions for the new year. There are international economic issues with Russia in recession, Europe struggling and China slowing. There are always problems in the middle east, North Korea, and in other regions.In the U.S., this is an odd year (no election), and Congress might threaten the economy again.  And something might surprise us again (did anyone see yields dropping this far in 2014?).Here are my ten questions for 2015. I'll follow up with some thoughts on each of these questions.1) Economic growth: Heading into 2015, most analysts are pretty sanguine.   Even with contraction in Q1, 2014 was a decent year (GDP will grow around 2.4% in 2014).  Will 2015 be the best year of the recovery so far?  Could 2015 be the best year since the '90s?  Or will 2015 disappoint again?2) Employment:  With one month to go, 2014 is already the best year for employment growth since the '90s.   Will 2015 be as strong?  Or will job creation slow in 2015? 3) Unemployment Rate: The unemployment rate was at 5.8% in November, down 1.2 percentage points year-over-year.  Currently the FOMC is forecasting the unemployment rate will be in the 5.2% to 5.3% range next December.  What will the unemployment rate be in December 2014?4) Inflation: The inflation rate is still running well below the Fed's 2% target. Will the core inflation rate rise in 2015?  Will too much inflation be a concern in 2015?5) Monetary Policy:  The Fed completed QE3 in 2014, and now the question is will the Fed raise rates in 2015?  If so, when?  And by how much?  The Fed Funds rate has been at 0 to 0.25% since December 2008.6) Real Wage Growth: Last month I listed a few economic "words of the year" for the last decade.  I finished with: "2015: Wages (Just being hopeful - maybe 2015 will be the year that real wages start to increase)". Will real wages increase in 2015? 7) Oil Prices: Declining oil prices and falling bond yields were two of the biggest stories of 2014.  Will oil prices continue to decline in 2015? 8) Residential Investment: Residential investment (RI) picked was up solidly in 2012 and 2013 - up 13.5% and 11.9% respectively - but RI was only up 1.6% through Q3 2014.   Note: RI is mostly investment in new single family structures, multifamily structures, home improvement and commissions on existing home sales.  How much will RI increase in 2015?  How about housing starts and new home sales in 2015?9) House Prices: It appears house prices - as measured by the national repeat sales index (Case-Shiller, CoreLogic) - will be up about 5% or so in 2014 (after increasing about 12% nationally in 2013).   What will happen with house prices in 2015?10) Housing Inventory: It appears housing inventory bottomed in early 2013.  Will inventory increase further in 2015, and, if so, by how much?There are other key questions, but these are the ones I'm thinking about now. FREE AppDownload
If you want good investment performance, forget you have an account. On Barry Ritholtz's Masters in Business radio program earlier this year, Ritholtz spoke with James O'Shaughnessy of O'Shaughnessy Asset Management. Ritholtz and O'Shaughnessy spent much of their discussion talking about the ways people screw themselves when investing, because nothing gets in the way of returns quite like someone who thinks they have a great idea.  O'Shaughnessy discusses a number of interesting analyses he has done with regard to the length of holding periods (spoiler: the shorter you hold a stock, the more likely you are to lose money) among other things. But O'Shaughnessy relays one anecdote from an employee who recently joined his firm that really makes one's head spin. O'Shaughnessy: "Fidelity had done a study as to which accounts had done the best at Fidelity. And what they found was..." Ritholtz: "They were dead." O'Shaughnessy: "...No, that's close though! They were the accounts of people who forgot they had an account at Fidelity." There are numerous studies that explain why this happens. And they almost always come down to the fact that our minds work against us. Because of our behavioral biases, we often find ourselves buying high and selling low. Ritholtz also follows with some of his experiences in estate planning, where a family fighting over some inherited assets might not touch them for say 10 or 20 years while they work out the problem, and later find that those 10 or 20 years are the best period of performance. The absolutely terrible investment decisions that people make are something that just can't be emphasized enough.  Earlier in the year, we highlighted this chart from Rich Bernstein that shows just how terrible you are at investing: don't forget it.  Richard Bernstein Advisors FREE AppDownload
PNCThe cost of Christmas is up 1%, according to PNC. The bank calculates a Christmas Price Index based on the song "The Twelve Days of Christmas." This year, buying the whole song will set you back $27,673.21. Most of the twelve goods and services that go into the index were unchanged, even the price of swans ($7,000), which has traditionally been the most volatile. The big swing in prices this year came from the geese, which jumped to $360 from $210 last year. Partridges also increased in price, to $20 from $15 (who knew partridges were so cheap?). “While there are exceptions in given years, what’s most interesting about the index’s history is that since the beginning, year-over-year increases have averaged 2.8 percent, which is exactly the same number as the U.S. inflation index,” according to Jim Dunigan, the chief investment officer at PNC Wealth Management. Here's the full index: PNC The real lesson here seems to be: don't try to buy your birds online. There's no word yet on how the Fed might take this into account when it comes to rate hikes.   FREE AppDownload
Rob Griffith/ReutersRussian President Vladimir Putin, left, with Crown Prince Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia. At a panel discussion Wednesday hosted by the Overseas Press Club and Control Risks (the latter a global risk consultancy), the speakers seemed skeptical of the idea that Saudi Arabia was refusing to prop up oil prices because it wanted to force American producers out of the market. (US shale basins are among the most expensive sources of oil to tap.) There may be better political reasons for this move, with a reduction in American shale supply on the market just being the icing on the cake.  The more obvious losers in the current oil climate are Iran and Russia — the former of course being Saudi Arabia's archrival in the region, and the latter being no great friend of the Saudis' either. The pinch to shale may just be "a wonderful byproduct to screwing the Iranians and the Russians," said Michael Moran, Control Risk's managing director for global risk analysis. Further, he said, doing nothing has actually been a really smart move by the Saudis. With every move further down in price, the actions of the Saudis become more closely watched, reinforcing the country's position as the world's oil superpower.  Deutsche Bank / Business InsiderOPEC countries need high oil prices to break even. But they're also sitting on financial reserves. As for the impact of low prices on US shale, Levi says, even if the market figures out a breakeven price for American producers (which is hard, because it varies from well to well), that's going to change in two years and even more in five years, as the technology continues to develop. All of the above said, Levi cautions against thinking of Saudi Arabia as some sort of mastermind of the global energy story. It's unclear how many steps ahead the Saudis actually are.  "Don't overestimate the strategy of OPEC," he says.  FREE AppDownload
Alexander Zemlianichenko/APIn this Tuesday, Dec. 16, 2014 file photo, a man walks by a sign advertising currencies of an exchange office in Moscow, Russia.Russia's rouble strengthened on Thursday as exporters sold foreign currency in response to government pressure and to meet tax payments, but trading volumes were thin as many Western markets were closed for the Christmas Day holidays. At 3.25 a.m. EST, the rouble was 1.7 percent stronger against the dollar at 52.55  and gained 1.5 percent to trade at 64.53 versus the euro. The rouble earlier hit its highest against the dollar and euro since Dec. 4 and has trimmed its losses against the greenback to around 37 percent this year. The Russian currency is supported towards the end of each month by tax payments to the state budget that require Russian exporters to convert part of their foreign-currency earnings into rubles. Reuters Forex sales have also risen after the government told large exporters on Tuesday that by March 1 they must bring their net foreign exchange assets back to the levels of Oct. 1. Analysts, however, are cautious on the near-term outlook for the rouble, saying much depends on oil prices, which remain weak, and progress in talks to secure a lasting peace in eastern Ukraine. "We think the short-term upside for the rouble is limited," Dmitry Polevoy at ING Bank said in a note, also citing the risk of Russia being downgraded to 'junk' status by ratings agency S&amp;P as a factor weighing on investors' mood. The central bank has spent over $80 billion defending the rouble this year amid a slump in oil prices and Western sanctions over the Ukraine crisis that have restricted Russian firms' access to international capital markets. It said on Thursday that it and the Finance Ministry had not conducted forex market interventions on Dec 23. Russian shares were mixed on Thursday, largely reflecting the moves in the rouble. The dollar-denominated RTS index was up 2.4 percent to 834 points, while its rouble-based peer MICEX traded 0.5 percent lower at 1,393 points. Shares in the country's second-largest bank VTB rose over 5 percent. The Finance Ministry said on Thursday it was doing everything it could to ensure VTB gets money from the National Wealth Fund by the end of the year. (Reporting by Alexander Winning; Editing by Vladimir Soldatkin) FREE AppDownload
CNBC It shows the 10-year Treasury yield, with dotted lines representing analysts' forecasts. "Wall Street economists have been consistently wrong in their forecasts for the ten-year rate over the past decade," Slok writes. How many times in recent years have we heard folks say that rates have "nowhere to go but up"? Entering 2014, almost every financial pro out there was betting that the 30-year-old bond bull market would finally come to an end and send rates higher. So, what are these pros predicting for 2015? "The latest Fed Survey of Professional Forecasters predicts that ten-year rates in 2015 will go up to 3%; see the last dotted line in the chart," Slok notes. "Subtracting the average 12-month forecast error of 60bps from that number suggests that another estimate of where ten-year rates will be by the end of 2015 is 2.4%." Who knows? Maybe history won't repeat itself this time around. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
