UPDATE: Okay, this was pretty good: Friday morning, Evan Mathis Tweeted a picture showing a wider view of the bill, which revealed that the red table cloth that resembled Lane Johnson's Tweet was actually just a T-Shirt, and that the bill was an elaborately mocked-up fake. The first letters of each of the items spell out ROCK-PAPER-SCISSORS-ROSHAMBO. Last night was fun. Thanks for the great reactions. pic.twitter.com/WMNSXjM8WH With 15 diners, it came out to about $1,200 a person — an obscene amount for most, but nothing that would ruin an NFL player. This evening, Eagles guard Evan Mathis tweeted out a seemingly identical image. Except this time the total came to more than $64,000. For 16 guests. Have always hated this tradition. RT @EvanMathis69: Teaching rookies a lesson... pic.twitter.com/2IwgZpY1yR And everyone did a Kamikaze shot. Most of the players went with the 32 oz. "long bone" steak for $89. A few got 25 oz. strip steaks for $67. And someone bought one crab cake for $19.  Slightly grotesque; mostly harmless. Evan Mathis FREE AppDownload
CoindeskBitcoin prices fell as much as 6% today, and are now back below $600 for the first time since May. The drop was likely linked to an announcement from the U.S. Marshals that it would begin auctioning off Bitcoins seized in the FBI's investigation of Silk Road, the defunct online drug marketplace. The agency said it was auctioning off more than 29,000 Bitcoins, worth nearly $18 million at Thursday prices. The amount remains a fraction of the 144,341 bitcoins now in the government's possession from the Silk Road case. Elsewhere, Expedia announced it has begun accepting Bitcoin; and a Bitcoin mining company called HashPlex raised a seed round of $400,000 from a group of investors that included SecondMarket's Barry Silbert. The firm says it can run a user's Bitcoin mining software for them at a lower price. FREE AppDownload
How much do you know about Brazil? Here are 13 wild facts about the country. Produced by Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Gold, the hard asset long seen as the ultimate hedge against risk, has fallen so much out of favor in recent years that the owner of a mine in Canada's historic Yukon gold belt wants to sell the property for $2 million in bitcoin, a virtual currency. The tiny, producing mine is being offered for sale by an unidentified seller on BitPremier, a self-described bitcoin marketplace for "luxury items and opportunities". The mine, located right in Dawson City, the heart of the 1890s Klondike Gold Rush, has the potential to produce up to 4,000 ounces of gold a year, worth $5.9 million at current prices. The sale includes $1 million worth of equipment. "A well-respected, fully compliant and profitable company, any new buyer could recoup their initial investment in as little as two mining seasons," the sales advertisement says. It does not say whether the owner would consider any other form of payment besides bitcoins. Prices for gold have slumped by a third in the past 2-1/2 years after a decade-long rally, leaving many mines struggling to stay profitable. Bitcoin is the most prominent of a group of so-called virtual currencies created by computers and accepted by some retailers as payment on the Internet or in shops. Enthusiasts are drawn to bitcoin's ideals of transparency and a lack of central or official control, and use the digital currency as a hedge against currency fluctuations. But critics say the near anonymity of transactions makes bitcoins a magnet for drug transactions, money-laundering and other illegal activities. Recent mishaps, including a bankruptcy fling from Mt Gox, a bitcoin exchange, has brought the technology under heightened scrutiny and seen the value of one bitcoin slide to about $610 from above $1,000 late last year. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerThe scene in Mosul.London-traded Brent crude rallied 3% to $113 today as the security situation in Iraq continued to deteriorate.  The Wall Street Journal reported Iran had deployed Revolutionary Guard units to Iraq to defend against a violent Sunni insurgent group that has already seized Iraq's second-largest city. Iraq's leadership is largely Shia, which is also the majority religion in Iran.  President Obama said his administration had "not ruled anything out" to defend Iraq's elected leaders. NYMEX-traded crude climbed more than 2% to $106. FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Tami Chappell A driver uses a mobile phone in a car after running off the roadway due to a snow storm in Atlanta, Georgia, January 29, 2014. The U.S. economy may have just experienced one of its worst quarters ever. New analyst estimates of Q1 GDP have now all coalesced around a reading of -2%, meaning the U.S. economy contracted. Since 1947, there've been just 10 other quarters that have shrunk by at least that amount, according to FRED data. Besides the Great Recession, the last time was in 1982.  In notes today, Barclays and UBS both cited new Census data showing health care consumption was lower than expected, and as a result, have lowered their Q1 GDP forecasts to the aforementioned -2%.   History suggests that the BEA’s revisions have closely followed the [quarterly services survey] and, consequently, we expect the BEA to revise health care spending sharply lower in the third estimate of Q1 GDP. We now estimate that private consumption grew at 2.1% q/q saar in Q1, down from 3.1% in the second estimate, and added 1.4pp to growth. This leaves our Q1 real GDP tracking estimate at -2.0%, down 0.7% relative to our previous estimate following business inventories for April... Macroeconomic Advisers, meanwhile, cited a negative March core sales revision — suggesting lower consumption — for why it has now revised its Q1 estimate down a further 1/10th to -2.1%. Just two days ago, the firm was estimating a Q1 slide of just -1.4%.  Here's a cross-section of the new run-down: Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna is a bit more upbeat, writing that the magnitude of weakness in Q1 output was not consistent with nonfarm payrolls, production and spending growth in the quarter, and that he expects the U.S. to shake it off.  To be sure, the economic data over the past couple of months have largely confirmed that activity is rapidly recovering from its Q1 weather-induced slump. While May retail sales were weaker than expected, upward revisions to April should mitigate any concerns about current-quarter consumption. Moreover, it is possible the May retail sales data get revised higher if the recent trend is any indication; ex-auto retail sales have been revised higher in each of the last three months. The firms are still largely bullish on Q2; here again, Deutsche Bank has the high card at 4.2%. But Q1 shows the U.S. economy is not prepared to handle unusually harsh winters, or must still shrug off underlying weakness, or some combination of the two.   Final GDP data are released on June 25. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Coming Era Of Longevity Risks An Overpricing Of Safe Assets (Bank of America)  The number of people over the age of 60 is expected to double from 841 million in 2013, to over 2 billion by 2050. Sarbjit Nahal and Beijia Ma at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, dub this the coming longevity revolution. And this revolution has implications for stocks and safe assets. "Demographics provide an investor base that will be less keen to take on unhedged equity risk than previously," they write. "…As the population ages, core equity holdings will shrink as a proportion of asset allocation in exchange for more traditional wealth preservation assets such as bonds." The risk here is that a reallocation to safe-assets "may lead to safe-asset shortages and an overpricing of safe assets," write Nahal and Ma. "At the same time, as risky assets such as equities are increasingly shunned, there is a possibility of an underpricing of riskier assets." There are however two ways to counterbalance this: 1. "Defined benefit funds with funding gaps in the current low interest rate environment, which may invest in risky assets to enhance expected returns." 2. "Underpricing may also be mitigated by international investors' buying cheaper risky assets." People Are Buying Burrito Bonds In London (The Wall Street Journal) The UK fast food joint Chilango has issued "burrito bonds," that pay an 8% interest rate semi-annually. They also give buyers free burritos every week till the note matures if, buyers subscribe for £10,000 pounds ($16,800), reports WSJ's Josie Cox. The minimum investment is £500 ($841). The firm is looking to raise £1 million ($1.7 million) and has already raised $600,000. "I don’t want to say there’s an absurdly reckless chase for yield, but people are buying burrito bonds in London," Josh Brown tweeted. Advisors Need To Tell Clients About Total Costs Not Just Advisor Fees (Investment News) Advisors underestimate how much their clients pay, a new survey from Peak Advisor Alliance and Cerulli Associates has found. The survey of 159 advisors found that 62.7% of advisors think clients pay 1.5% or less of their investable assets in total costs — this includes fees for advisors, the product, the platform, and the administrative fee — when the average total cost is actually about 1.83% of assets. "This is going to become a bigger and bigger issue because the next generation is much smarter and savvier about getting information," Ron Carson, CEO of Carson Wealth Management told Liz Skinner at Investment News. "Advisers need to be providing it to them proactively." Advisors Should Find Their Ideal Client Type Instead Of Chasing Large Asset Pools (The Wall Street Journal)  Advisors tend to target large asset pools instead of the type of client they want to serve, writes Ray Sclafani, CEO and founder of ClientWise LLC in a WSJ column. "In my experience, advisers who strategize, target, and stick to their ideal client type increase their value proposition," writes Sclafani. "Not only does having an ideal client type help advisers differentiate their services, our research suggests it can significantly increase their assets under management." Advisors can pinpoint their client type by locating a niche within a broader field. "For example, the medical field is a target market. Within that field the niche might be doctors, and within doctors the ideal client profile might be doctors who own their own practices, see value in financial services, and are willing to pay a fee for that advice," he writes. How Investors Should Think About Europe's Negative Interest Rates (Vanguard) On June 5, the European Central Bank (ECB) became the first major central bank to push interest rates into negative territory. But Charles J. Thomas, an investment analyst with Vanguard Investment Strategy Group, advises clients against making changes to their portfolios based on the ECB's actions. "One way that investors can help mitigate the risk and uncertainty associated with economic developments in any one region is to make sure they have broad diversification by owning a little bit of many investments across the world," Thomas said. "And investors would be wise to remember that they generally are rewarded over time for the risk they take in their portfolios, not for day-to-day economic events." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Chris Watt So the head of the Bank of England just decided to have some fun. Right as the first World Cup match is starting, Mark Carney just fired the ultimate warning. Here's the headline that Bloomberg just fired off: CARNEY SAYS BOE COULD RAISE RATE SOONER THAN MARKETS EXPECT. Here are his exact comments: The MPC’s current guidance makes clear that we will set monetary policy to meet the inflation target while using up that spare capacity. This has implications for the timing, pace and degree of Bank Rate increases. There’s already great speculation about the exact timing of the first rate hike and this decision is becoming more balanced.  It could happen sooner than markets currently expect. But to be clear, the MPC has no pre-set course. The ultimate decision will be data-driven.  At this point it is safest to conclude, as the MPC has, that there remains scope for spare capacity to be used up before policy is tightened and that a host of labour market, capacity utilization and pricing indicators should be watched closely to determine how that slack is evolving.If there's one thing that could unnerve the market, it's the notion of the world's major central banks actually beginning the tightening cycle in earnest. Here Mark Carney is suggesting that markets, at least in the UK, are being too complacent about when the party will come to an end. Although the Fed will do its own thing, it seems plausible that Carney's comments will concentrate the mind around what will happen stateside. Meanwhile, the British Pound is surging at the hint of higher rates. FinViz Check out the full speech here &gt; FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ray StubblebineStocks fell for the second straight day as the Dow lost 110 points and the Nasdaq lost nearly 1%. The situation in Iraq weighed on markets, and both crude oil and gold traded higher. First, the scoreboard: Dow: 16,734..19, -109.7, 0.6%S&amp;P 500: 1,930.11, -13.8, 0.7%Nasdaq: 4,2967.63, -35.3, -0.8% And now, the top stories of the day: Don't Miss: How A Canadian Pharmaceutical Company Could Destroy The Industry As We Know It »   FREE AppDownload
PHOTOFORMULA.com | by RINGO CHIUHear from Whisper's CEO, Michael Heyward at IGNITIONLinkedIn, Facebook, and Twitter channel billions of egos. What about those not looking to take home the crowd? The short answer is Whisper, which is what happens when two app-age L.A. entrepreneurs build a social network based around something Mark Zuckerberg wants to ban: anonymity.  Engineer a slick, searchable interface, stir in $60 million in blue-chip venture funding, add a spat with Gwyneth Paltrow about marital infidelity, and presto: You’re running a real-time global version of the Dr. Phil show, now serving 6 billion pageviews a month. It must be something in the L.A. pool water: CEO Michael Heyward was a schoolmate of Snapchat’s Evan Spiegel. And Whisper’s home base is Santa Monica, spawning ground of another famous riot of online expression, Myspace. What’s the secret? That’s what we’ll find out when Heyward joins us at IGNITION: Future of Digital, for a freewheeling conversation about the future of social networking in an increasingly untethered world. He’ll joined by Whisper lead investor Jeremy Liew of Lightspeed Ventures, an early Snapchat backer as well who is targeting another of the Internet's once sacred pillars: archived data. Disruptions are what IGNITION is all about, from the front lines of mobile networking to the continuing attacks on every sector of traditional media, commerce, and industry. Amazon.com’s Jeff Bezos, power investor Jim Breyer, former Apple CEO John Sculley, Shutterstock CEO Jon Oringer, Athenacare’s Jonathan Bush (yes, that Bush family), and Gilt chairman Kevin Ryan head an all-star cast, with three fast-paced days of high-profile conversations about the future of digital, including business models and platforms, ranging from mobile and online to broadcast and from news and sports to e-commerce and entertainment.  P.S. If you're interested in joining the IGNITION community by sponsoring, contact ignition@businessinsider.com. Follow @BI_Events on Twitter and join our LinkedIn Group for IGNITION updates. FREE AppDownload
APStocks are falling and are currently at session lows. The Dow is down 108 (0.6%), the S&amp;P 500 is down 15 points (0.8%), and the Nasdaq is down 40 points (0.9%). Headlines out of Iraq, including a recent report from The Wall Street Journal that said Iran will send forces to fight in Iraq, may be contributing to the recent move lower. With Iraq still appearing unstable, crude oil prices are higher, as is the price of gold, and bonds have rallied some.  In corporate news, Elon Musk, CEO of Tesla, just announced that the company is making its patents available for fair use. Shares of the electric car-maker have turned negative following the announcement.  Twitter's COO Ali Rowghani is leaving the company. Shares of yoga apparel maker lululemon are down more than 15% after the company cut its full year outlook.   In economic news, retail sales for May rose 0.3%, lower than what had been expected, though sales for April were revised up to 0.5% from 0.1%.  Weekly jobless claims rose to 317,000, more than the 310,000 economists had been expecting.  FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Stephen Lam Shares of Tesla have turned negative after CEO Elon Musk made the company's patents available for fair use.  Musk announced his decision in a blog post, which outlined why the company no longer feels compelled to protect its patents. Musk said that the company's real competition is, "not the small trickle of non-Tesla electric cars being produced, but rather the enormous flood of gasoline cars pouring out of the world's factories every day." You can read Musk's full post here.  Shares of Tesla were higher earlier in the session, but have forfeited those gains and are down about 0.2% in afternoon trade.  Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Robert GalbraithOracle CEO Larry Ellison celebrates a yacht racing win.Average CEO pay in the United States' biggest companies has been increasing at a moderate rate over the past few years, rising to $11.4 million in 2013, according to a new Wall Street Journal report. Their pay rose 5.5% over 2012, while wages and salaries for private sector workers rose 1.8% over the same period. According to the Associated Press and Equilar, the median pay package of CEOs of S&amp;P 500 companies was 257 times more than the salary of their average employee, up from 181 times more in 2009. To many Americans, this appears to be a travesty and a symptom of dangerous inequality. But even though a top CEO's annual pay package may still be an unfathomable amount of money for most people, defenders of this recent increase in pay think anger toward it is misguided. They say that it is largely the result of a healthy stock market and also point to the fact that a large majority of shareholders, those who want to avoid losing money on poorly performing executives, approve of how much their companies' CEOs are making. "As the public cried for executives' pay to be tied to performance, that trend has very much happened," says Kevin Scott, co-founder/CEO of branding consulting firm the ADDO Institute. "And now, as their stocks are performing at very high levels, those CEOs are reaping the benefits." During the recession, critics were upset that executives could enjoy big salaries and bonuses as their companies performed terribly in the stock market. When the Dodd-Frank Act passed in 2010, its Wall Street reforms included a "say on pay" provision that gave shareholders the right to vote on an executive's pay package every three years. Companies' boards have responded to this regulation, and there has been a trend toward basing CEO compensation on how well a company is doing in the market relative to its competition. "They've learned to avoid investor pay irritants and red flags, such as compensation that is not linked to performance and pay perks to cover taxes executives owed," the Wall Street Journal reported in April. U.S. stocks are at all-time highs, and so it follows that many CEOs of the nation's biggest corporations are making more money than they were a few years ago. Furthermore, inequality is down from the boom years of the late 90s, where the average pay of an S&amp;P 500 CEO hit a high of 350 times that of the median household income, according to the University of Chicago's Booth School of Business. Chicago Booth professor Steven Neil Kaplan has written extensively on executive pay, and agrees that inequality is a real concern. He believes, however, that although there are of course exceptions, CEOs' pay packages are not the result of greed and excess, and argues that CEO pay should be compared with the salaries of other high-earning professionals: "If you look at CEO pay compared to the average pay of people in the top 0.1%, it's about where it was 20 years ago — in line with [that of] lawyers and private-company executives, and less than hedge-fund managers," he said last year. Kaplan also believes that there's a bigger gap in pay between big corporations' CEOs and their employees than in the 60s, 70s, or 80s partially because technology has allowed executives to control more profitable, global companies. He thinks that even though inequality was higher in 1999, people weren't rallying against the 1% because the economy was growing. Essentially, Kaplan thinks CEO pay of the nation's biggest corporations is generally fair and justified, and paying them less would not somehow raise the standard of the lower and middle classes. ADDO's CEO Scott believes that if shareholders are happy with a board's executive compensation and the company is making money, then executives are incentivized to work harder and the company should have higher returns. "A lot of people think about compensation in terms of extracting value, taking the most you can. But when CEOs focus on creating value ... and compensation follows, then everyone wins," Scott says. There has been rising shareholder approval of their companies' executive pay packages, according to the Journal. For example, in early April, 93% of companies in the Russell 3000 index approved of their CEO's pay. Those who are still outraged over CEOs' compensation want government intervention and a shift in focus from a company's shareholders and board to its employees. In late May, Democratic Sens. Mark DeSaulnier and Loni Hancock proposed a bill that would link California's corporate tax rate to executive compensation. It was defeated 19-17, but provides insight into what some critics are looking for. Currently, California corporations pay 8.84% of their income to the state, and banks pay 2% more. The senators' bill would have reduced the tax rate for companies in which the CEO's pay is less than 100 times that of a median employee, and increased on a sliding scale up to 13% for those that passed the barrier. The idea was that the threat of paying significantly more in taxes would compel companies to balance annual pay. "This is not to vilify those individuals. They work hard. They are creative. But from a historical standpoint, this is not a sustainable model for us to maintain," DeSaulnier said. ADDO's CEO Scott thinks that non-shareholders shouldn't be telling boards how much a CEO is worth. "Individuals who have no affiliation with a business or a brand — their opinion should not factor into a CEO's compensation package. Because the great thing is that we can choose as individuals to do business with whatever businesses we want to," Scott says. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stephen Lam Tesla is opening up its patents — even on its batteries and chargers — for fair use. In a conference call on Thursday announcing the move, CEO Elon Musk said he believes a company's relying on patents is a sign of weakness: "It means they're not innovating," he said. "They're not innovating fast enough. You should be innovating so fast that you're invalidating your prior patents." Musk blasted the state of patent regimes in America as stifling innovation and said he hopes other companies ditch their patent protections. "I suggested it to BMW last night," he said. In a new blog post, Musk added that he also felt the move was necessary to speed up initiatives to address climate change. Tesla didn't want patents initially — SpaceX has none, he explained — but the company felt they were necessary when they believed their principal competition was major automakers. They now realize that is not the case: The unfortunate reality is the opposite: Electric car programs (or programs for any vehicle that doesn’t burn hydrocarbons) at the major manufacturers are small to non-existent, constituting an average of far less than 1% of their total vehicle sales. Given that annual new vehicle production is approaching 100 million per year and the global fleet is approximately 2 billion cars, it is impossible for Tesla to build electric cars fast enough to address the carbon crisis. By the same token, it means the market is enormous. Our true competition is not the small trickle of non-Tesla electric cars being produced, but rather the enormous flood of gasoline cars pouring out of the world’s factories every day. We believe that Tesla, other companies making electric cars, and the world would all benefit from a common, rapidly evolving technology platform.  Technology leadership is not defined by patents, which history has repeatedly shown to be small protection indeed against a determined competitor, but rather by the ability of a company to attract and motivate the world’s most talented engineers. We believe that applying the open source philosophy to our patents will strengthen rather than diminish Tesla’s position in this regard. Anyone who uses Tesla's patents in good faith will not face a lawsuit, Musk said. Here's the post: Yesterday, there was a wall of Tesla patents in the lobby of our Palo Alto headquarters. That is no longer the case. They have been removed, in the spirit of the open source movement, for the advancement of electric vehicle technology. Tesla Motors was created to accelerate the advent of sustainable transport. If we clear a path to the creation of compelling electric vehicles, but then lay intellectual property landmines behind us to inhibit others, we are acting in a manner contrary to that goal. Tesla will not initiate patent lawsuits against anyone who, in good faith, wants to use our technology. When I started out with my first company, Zip2, I thought patents were a good thing and worked hard to obtain them. And maybe they were good long ago, but too often these days they serve merely to stifle progress, entrench the positions of giant corporations and enrich those in the legal profession, rather than the actual inventors. After Zip2, when I realized that receiving a patent really just meant that you bought a lottery ticket to a lawsuit, I avoided them whenever possible. At Tesla, however, we felt compelled to create patents out of concern that the big car companies would copy our technology and then use their massive manufacturing, sales and marketing power to overwhelm Tesla. We couldn’t have been more wrong. The unfortunate reality is the opposite: electric car programs (or programs for any vehicle that doesn’t burn hydrocarbons) at the major manufacturers are small to non-existent, constituting an average of far less than 1% of their total vehicle sales. At best, the large automakers are producing electric cars with limited range in limited volume. Some produce no zero emission cars at all. Given that annual new vehicle production is approaching 100 million per year and the global fleet is approximately 2 billion cars, it is impossible for Tesla to build electric cars fast enough to address the carbon crisis. By the same token, it means the market is enormous. Our true competition is not the small trickle of non-Tesla electric cars being produced, but rather the enormous flood of gasoline cars pouring out of the world’s factories every day. We believe that Tesla, other companies making electric cars, and the world would all benefit from a common, rapidly evolving technology platform.  Technology leadership is not defined by patents, which history has repeatedly shown to be small protection indeed against a determined competitor, but rather by the ability of a company to attract and motivate the world’s most talented engineers. We believe that applying the open source philosophy to our patents will strengthen rather than diminish Tesla’s position in this regard. Read the full blog post here » FREE AppDownload
Shares of Keurig Green Mountain are going crazy again. In afternoon trade the stock is up more than 5% on no news. Yahoo This is the second time in a week the stock has risen sharply, rising more than 8% into the close last Friday. That move had traders scratching their heads. Risk Reversal's Dan Nathan told CNBC on Monday that Friday's action was curious, and said that it became a situation where "buying begets buying."  On Monday, Keurig Green Mountain announced an agreement with Subway to bring the company's Keurig single-cup coffee brewers to Subway restaurants in North America. A nice partnership for the company, but not the kind of deal that drives a stock up 8%. Last Friday, the trading in question was the buying of $120 call options set to expire tomorrow. A call option is a contract that allows an investor to buy a stock at a set price at a future date. Today on Twitter, Joe Kunkle, founder of OptionsHawk.com, noted that activity in Keurig Green Mountain is again notable. Kunkle said that today, traders are buying $135 calls expiring in July.  Keurig Green Mountain has been one of the most controversial stocks in the market, and in the past has been a short idea of hedge fund manager David Einhorn. Shares of Keurig went wild in January after Coca-Cola announced a 10% stake in the company. Once again, we'll be keeping an eye out. FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoIt's not just traders. Now investment bankers — Wall Street's analysts and dealmakers — need to watch their backs, too. JPMorgan CFO Marianne Lake fired off the warning shot at an investor conference yesterday. Specifically, Lake said that "too much capacity" in bond and currency trading could lead to revenue so anemic that layoffs and compensation cuts may have to be made throughout JPM's investment bank — the biggest investment bank in the world. And this is happening fast. So fast that even as JPM cuts compensation, the ratio between compensation and revenue could rise from the low 30% to 35% or more, Lake said. So if JPM can't hack it, expect other investment banks to feel the pain too. This just shows how bad things really are on the Street as the market remains silent and deadly. Lake's statement may seem like a quiet shift, but it's a big one. Traders are going to suffer, we've known that. Last month JPMorgan warned the Street that it was expecting a 20% dip in trading revenue in the second quarter. Morgan Stanley, for its part, has already cut forex and rates traders around the world.  Lake's words are the first sign of a full-on Wall Street shrinkage. In her speech, she said this problem was "cyclical," but she never said when the cycle would end. No one knows what kind of catalyst will bring the market out of its current doldrums — rising interest rates, higher employment, maybe a full moon? Nothing's perfect, but full moons have nailed some decent tops and bottoms in VIX. Full moon is tonight. pic.twitter.com/ituOnuXYow Probably not. FREE AppDownload
We are currently witnessing the 'Great Transfer' of wealth from the Greatest Generation to the baby boomers, according to Bank of America's Sarbjit Nahal and Beijia Ma. The Greatest Generation refers to the generation in the U.S. that experienced the Great Depression and then fought in World War II, and was coined by Tom Brokaw. But Nahal and Ma point out that "a second and even larger wealth transfer from the Boomers to their heirs is starting now and will continue over the next 30 to 40 years." The great transfer will see a handover of about $12 trillion from those born in 1920s and 30s to the boomers. But the boomers are expected to transfer some $30 trillion in assets to their heirs over the next 30-40 years in just the U.S., they write. There were 12 million global high-net-worth individual (HNWI) — those with investable assets of over $1 million — in 2012, with aggregate investable wealth of $46.2 trillion.  North America has 3.73 million HNWIs with investable wealth of $12.7 trillion. Asia-Pacific comes in close second with 3.68 million HNWIs, with investable assets of $12.0 trillion. Only 4 in 10 retirees in the U.S. uses a financial advisor, which means there is a huge opportunity for advisors. Bank of America FREE AppDownload
The search for yield has taken investors into the nether regions of the solar system. Last month, according to Artemis, a group that tracks catastrophe bonds, insurer USAA took out a policy against the risk it would have to pay out for tropical cyclones, earthquakes, severe thunderstorms, winter storms, wildfire, volcanic eruption and meteorite impact.  The reinsurer, Residential Re then turned around and issued a catastrophe bond worth $130 million to split up their USAA payout risk among investors.    Last year, a meteor impact caused millions of dollars' worth of damage to a city in Russia. Here's the listing: Artemis In a catastrophe bond, investors sponsor a body's insurance policy, betting the disaster won't occur. First, they pay an up-front amount to subscribe to the bond issuance. That amount is called collateral, and it gets parked in a fund managed by the bond issuer to be invested in low-risk securities. The pool is supposed to make interest payments to the investors as the bond reaches maturity. If the catastrophe is avoided, the investors see a nice return.  But if the catastrophe occurs and the policy is triggered, the fund is abruptly converted into a rainy (or earthquake-y, or tornado-y) day fund, and the investors can lose everything.  The Wall Street Journal's Ben Edwards said last month USAA's meteor bond was likely to yield 15%.  Cat bonds have exploded in popularity thanks to their hefty yields. David Cole, the CFO at Swiss Re, one of the world's largest reinsurers, recently told Bloomberg they're actually probably too popular.  The fact that no major natural catastrophes have occurred over the last two or three years doesn’t guarantee losses won’t occur in the future. Some people are chasing yield and may accept risks that they are not prepared for. Some of the new capital that comes into the market may be not as experienced or able to create a diversified portfolio. Here's a chart showing the frequency of new catastrophe bond issues. Besides yields, of course, there has also been a huge recent uptick in natural disasters.  Business Insider, data from ArtemisThe largest catastrophe bond ever was issued last month — a $1.5 billion note for protection against Florida hurricanes. FREE AppDownload
The death industry is about to become big business in China. Bank of America Merrill Lynch is out with a massive report on what it calls the "longevity revolution." Among myriad topics, BAML discusses growth in the "death care industry" in China, which is set to see its population over 65 grow significantly in the coming years. BAML says that by 2050, China's current 65+ population of 119 million is expected to double. As the population ages, the number of deaths is also forecast to rise to 10.4 million annually by 2015.  BAML expects the death industry to grow 17% to about 100 million yuan per year, as the cost of burial and funeral services increases. Bank of America Merrill Lynch FREE AppDownload
Monday through Thursday at the Monarch Room in New York City, executive chef Michael Citarella prepares his off-the-menu burger, the Monarch Burger. It's 8 ounces of all-natural, ultra-premium beef ground from a single steer with a 20% fat ratio. It's served on a toasted caraway-seeded bun with aged cheddar, bibb lettuce, beefsteak tomatoes, and Monarch's special sauce. We visited Michael's kitchen, where he showed us how to make the juiciest burger right in your own home.  Produced by Sam Rega. Additional camera by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
The Sandlot screenshot It's summer internship season on Wall Street and we've started asking some seasoned vets about their first experiences (or screw ups) in finance. Since many summer analysts are over 21, they're probably going to go out and drink with their team or fellow interns. They're also still going to have to be at work the following morning and they'll be expected to perform.  One Wall Street vet told us a cautionary tale about the time he had to sprint out of an international conference call to throw up after a night of partying.  "I was so f------g hungover," the former banker, who is now in his 40s, told us. One of his managing directors was kind enough to buy him a car service back to New Jersey following the incident.  "I was happy I didn't get sacked," he told us, "And thrilled he bought me a car service—because I definitely would have thrown up on New Jersey Transit." The next day he showed up to work and told his managing director he had the "stomach flu." The MD replied: "Yeah, I used to get those 'stomach flus' too after Thursday nights back when I was you age—Don't let it happen again."  Secretly, the young analyst wanted to reply, "Are you kidding? If you're 24 years-old, working at a bank, and not going out on Thursday nights there's something seriously wrong with you."  Instead, he just stared at the ground. It's not college anymore.  **If you have a story about your first experience on Wall Street and would like to share it, please feel free to email jlaroche@businessinsider.com. We'll be discreet.  FREE AppDownload
Retirement systems around the world are expected to face a significant burden in the next 50 years. The number of people over the age of 60 is expected to double from 841 million in 2013, to over 2 billion by 2050, according to the UN. What's more this has been accompanied by falling global birth rates. In fact, the global share of people over the age of 60 has gone from 9.2% in 1990, to 11.7% in 2013 and is expected to hit 21.1% in 2050, according to Bank of America's Sarbjit Nahal and Beijia Ma. The number of people over the age of 60 (older persons) is set to exceed the number of children for the first time, by 2047. "Longevity risk is hugely underestimated," the write. "Longevity risk will be one of the most significant challenges facing retirement systems over the next 50Y, with global annuity and pension-related exposure estimated to be as high as US$15-25tn." Nahal and Ma do however see a silver lining to longevity, namely, that the spending power of those over 60 is expected to hit $15 trillion by 2020. In the U.S. and Japan, the longevity sector is expected to account for over 50% of GDP by 2030. This chart from Nahal and Ma shows the percentage of the global population over the age of 65 is going to increase significantly by 2050. BAML
Christopher Furlong / Getty ImagesDo you read your brokerage statements? Drew Horter, Chief Investment Officer of Horter Investment Management, wouldn't be surprised if you didn't. "We find most people read the first two pages to see if it's up or down, and then close the statement," he says. "It's crucially important that you not only read it, but that you're able to understand what's in it." Your brokerage statement, which might arrive via email or snail mail at least once a quarter, reflects the activity in your investment portfolio. And if you read all the way through it, Horter says, you might see some of these red flags that indicate your advisor isn't making the best decisions: One of the first, key steps a financial advisor takes is to run a risk tolerance test to assess a client's risk parameters — how much money they can afford or are willing to lose, explains Horter. "Understanding how much risk a client wants to take will define the allocation," he says. A riskier portfolio, for instance, might hold a larger percentage of stocks, while a more conservative portfolio might tend toward more bonds. If the mix of securities in the portfolio (otherwise known as "asset allocation") doesn't appropriately reflect the risk you want to take, it's a red flag. As certain investments outperform others and earn disproportionately more money, your portfolio may become unbalanced and no longer reflect its original allocation. That means it should be "rebalanced" to get the allocation back in line. "If one part of the portfolio is outperforming the others, you need to rebalance," explains Horter. "It should be at least semiannual." If the bonds your portfolio holds are only municipal or treasury bonds, Horter explains, you should be wary. "While maturities are important, it is also necessary to take into account quality and performance within the bond's portfolio," he says. "Not all bonds are the same. Most people and advisors don't understand the risks of individual municipal or treasury bonds." Also known as "churn," an excessive amount of trades — Horter says more than 20 or so a month — could indicate that the advisor is making trades to earn commission, instead of working for your portfolio's best interest. "Generally, you look at the back of your statement and the last 10 pages or so will tell you all the different buys and sells," he explains. "I would definitely want to receive the confirmations on each buy and sell, the commission, and whether it's a principal trade or not — some brokerage firms hold stock in inventory and sell it to the client. I want to know: Is my advisor making money for the brokerage firm or for me?" "All performance should be reported net of fees," says Horter. If you aren't sure how much you're paying in fees, and for what, be sure to ask your advisor to clarify. In a brokerage statement, brackets indicate losses. "What caused them? Why do I have them?" Horter recommends asking. "Most advisors don't want to admit they've created losses, but if you know the S&amp;P 500 has been going up and your portfolio is showing losses, that doesn't add up." The best thing you can do in the case of brackets, Horter advises, is be aware of market patterns. "An educated client is the best client — he can know if an advisor is being upfront." Mutual funds in and of themselves aren't red flags, but they can lend themselves to obfuscation. "If your advisor is buying mutual funds, how is he staying on top of the quality of the funds in the portfolio?" Horter asks. "It's the fund manager that determines its performance — has he been there at least 10 years? If a manager left last year, that fund has no history." Plus, he says, you want to be wary of fees associated with mutual funds. On the statement, you'll see the fund name and symbol. If an A or C appears after that, you're paying additional fees, which may include loads (sales commissions) and 12B1 fees (for distribution costs like advertising). "If there's no letter, there's probably no load." If you see any of these red flags, Horter says, the first step is to ask your advisor about your concerns. If he or she can't alleviate them, it may be time to start looking for someone else — preferably a fiduciary, who must act in your portfolio's best interest. "This is your money," he reminds us. "No one is going to look out for it like you are." FREE AppDownload
YouTubeChip WilsonLululemon founder Chip Wilson is worried that the company's board is running the yoga gear retailer's business into the ground.  In a strongly worded news release yesterday, Wilson said he voted against re-electing outside directors. Shares are crashing today as Lululemon cut its profit outlook.  Wilson announced his resignation as chairman of the board last year after he came under fire for suggesting that some women's bodies weren't made to wear Lululemon's yoga pants.  In yesterday's news release, he revealed why he desperately wants a new board for his company, which has been plagued with quality-control issues for the past year (emphasis ours).  "I have found a palpable imbalance in Board representation, which is heavily weighted towards short-term results at the expense of product, culture and brand and longer-term corporate goals," Wilson wrote. "I believe this is impacting the company's prospects." In other words, Wilson feels that the company's board is more concerned with short-term profits than building a brand. Wilson continues to hold a 27% stake in Lululemon. Last year, Lululemon had to recall 17% of its bottoms because they were too sheer.  Even though the company claims to have fixed that issue, customers have complained that the pants pill and shred.  Shoppers who spend $100 on yoga pants expect good quality, and these incidents have tarnished perception of the company.  In the past year, Lululemon has hired several new executives, including CEO Laurent Potdevin. But as the company continues to struggle, a board shake-up might be necessary.  Lululemon responded to Wilson's criticism in a separate release. "Contrary to Mr. Wilson's assertions, Lululemon's board members are aligned with the Company's core values and possess the necessary expertise to successfully lead Lululemon forward," the company said.  Do you work at Lululemon? You can share your story by emailing retail@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
Phil Walter/Getty ImagesStocks are currently at session lows. The Dow is down 94 points (0.56%), the S&amp;P 500 is down 12 points (0.64%), and the Nasdaq is down 33 points (0.78%). The situation in Iraq is in focus, as a recent report from The Wall Street Journal said Iran is deploying forces to fight off militants in Iraq.  In corporate news, Tesla CEO Elon Musk published a blog post announcing that he has opened the company's patents up for fair use. Shares of Tesla are off their high following the announcement.  Shares of Keurig Green Mountain have been active for the second time in a week. Shares of the K-cup maker are up 4%.  Twitter COO Ali Rowghani is leaving the company. Shares of the social media company fell a bit following the news, which broke in the pre-market, but the stock is currently up about 2%. Shares of yoga apparel maker lululemon are down more than 14% after slashing its full year outlook and announcing that its CFO would retire.  Restoration Hardware shares are up better than 13% after the company last night reported better than expected earnings and raised its fiscal year expectations.  On the economic data front, retail sales for May grew 0.3% month-over-month, which was below expectations for a 0.6% rise. Sales for April got a huge upward revision, to 0.5% from a prior reading of 0.1%.  Weekly jobless claims hit 317,000 last week, more than the 310,000 that was expected by economists. Continuing claims also rose more than expected, hitting 2,614,000 against expectations for 2,605,000.  Business inventories in April grew 0.6%, topping expectations for a 0.4% increase. Following the report, Cooper Howes at Barclays said the report shows that U.S. GDP should grow 3% in the second quarter.  Crude oil is rallying, as the situation in Iraq has come into focus for more in the market and the media.  FREE AppDownload
Some of us pride ourselves on multitasking, but the science is in, and you shouldn't be doing it at all. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
David Carroll/flickrLululemon shares are off more than 15% after the yogawear maker lowered full year guidance and reported a drop in profit.  The Vancouver-based firm now sees full-year revenue of $1.77 billion to $1.8 billion, compared with earlier estimates for $1.77 billion to $1.82 billion. They reported profits of $19 million, or $0.13/share, down from $47.3 million, or $0.32/share, a year ago. Same-store sales climbed 1%. The firm announced CFO John Currie, who's been with the firm for seven years, would retire. CEO Christine Day was just replaced in January. Founder Chip Wilson tried unsuccessfully to oust two outside board members Wednesday, including new chairman Michael Casey. "Mr. Wilson, who owns 27 per cent of the company’s shares, said the directors were focusing on short term results 'at the expense of product, culture and brand and longer term corporate goals,'" the Globe and Mail reported. The firm also announced a share-repurchase program of up to $450 million, to be funded through the repatriation of foreign earnings. The company recorded a $30.9 million tax charge in the first quarter for the planned repatriation.   FREE AppDownload
ReutersThe U.S. Census' business inventories report for showed inventories grew 0.6%.  Economists were expecting the report to show inventories grew 0.4% over the prior month.  Following the report Cooper Howes at Barclays said U.S. GDP is now tracking for 3% growth in Q2 on the stronger than expected report. Howes and his team at Barclays were expecting a 0.3% increase in inventories, and said inventories should now provide a positive contribution to Q2 GDP after being a drag in Q1.  This table from Barclays shows how its GDP expectations have changed over the last few weeks of data.  Barclays FREE AppDownload
Chilango Chilango, which is positioning itself as Britain's response to Chipotle, has issued a series of "burrito bonds." The notes pay an 8% interest rate semi-annually. More importantly, they also come with a free burrito every week for the duration of the note if you subscribe for £10,000 pounds ($16,800). The Wall Street Journal's Josie Cox, who first wrote up the story, says this could save burrito hounds more than $600 a year. The minimum investment is £500 ($841).  The firm says they've already raised nearly $600,000 from 83 investors since the issue went public a week ago. They're aiming for £1 million ($1.7 million), but could raise as much as £3 million if the deal is oversubscribed. They're working through CrowdCube, a UK-based site that is looking to expand the use of "mini-bonds" that will allow investors to lend money to established brands. Chilango was founded by two ex-Skype executives in 2007. They've now opened seven branches around London. Here's their 33-page prospectus: Chilango - The Burrito Bond Invitation Document706  FREE AppDownload
Brian Snyder / ReutersGoldman Sachs has cut its first quarter GDP estimate to -1.9%. The firm had previously expected a Q1 GDP decline of -1.1%. On Twitter, Reuters' Jamie McGeever noted that excluding the 2008-2009 crash, this would be the largest quarterly GDP contraction in 23 years.  The downward revision comes after yesterday's Q1 QSS report from the U.S. Census, which provides national estimates of revenue for service industry firms. Goldman said the QSS report calls into question the amount of health spending in the first quarter. Health spending accounted for about one-third of the estimated 3.1% increase in real personal spending, according to Goldman. Goldman said it isn't completely surprised by this potential revision, as anecdotal reports from health care companies suggested that health care spending in that period was actually quite weak. The firm said that those anecdotal reports also imply a pickup in spending later in the Q1 and into the second quarter. This chart from Goldman shows what the decline in health spending during the first quarter looks like following the QSS report.  Goldman Sachs The final Q1 GDP estimate will be released June 25. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stefan WermuthValeant Pharmaceuticals is trying to acquire Allergan, the maker of Botox. The tactics it's using to do so might end up killing the pharmaceutical industry.  Valeant first approached Allergan in April 2014. It has twice raised its bid, which it is making with hedge-fund manager Bill Ackman. Allergan has so far rejected each of Valeant's three overtures. Valeant's most recent offer was made on May 30.  But Allergan says it isn't rejecting Valeant's bid because of price. It's rejecting Valeant's business model.  Valeant's Business Model Valeant is a pharmaceuticals company now domiciled in Canada. In 2010, Valeant acquired Canadian pharmaceutical company Biovail, and following the acquisition moved its headquarters to Montreal.  As of February, Canada's corporate tax rate was about 26.5% compared to about 40% in the U.S., according to data from KPMG. Bloomberg TVUnder CEO Michael Pearson, the company has executed more than 100 deals as part of a strategy to grow through acquisitions, according to The Wall Street Journal.  On Valeant's first-quarter conference call, Pearson said that in the first quarter alone, the company completed 10 transactions.  Pearson elaborated on what Valeant looks for in an acquisition, saying it looks at cash flow and what he called a "certain return to our shareholders."  When Pearson refers to a "certain return" for shareholders, he walks into a central criticism of Valeant's business model: Namely that Valeant strips costs, including research, development and staff, from the companies it acquires and just sells their finished products. But is low R&amp;D spending sustainable? Allergan's Self-Defense Strategy In a letter to Pearson, Allergan CEO David Pyott said Valeant's latest offer does not include enough "sufficient or certain value to warrant discussions between Allergan and Valeant." In a May 12 letter rejecting Valeant's first increased offer, Pyott said: Valeant's strategy runs counter to Allergan's customer focused approach. In particular, we question how Valeant would achieve the level of cost cuts it is proposing without harming the long-term viability and growth trajectory of our business. For those reasons and others, we do not believe that the Valeant business model is sustainable. One of Allergan's main problems with Valeant's business model is that the company does not invest in research and development. In its latest presentation rejecting Valeant's offer, Allergan said its 2013 R&amp;D costs were equal to about 17% of its revenue, while Valeant's R&amp;D spending was equal to about 2% of revenue.  On Valeant's first-quarter-earnings conference call, Pearson said he expects the company to exit 2014 with R&amp;D spending at about a $200 million a year.  Allergan argues that its R&amp;D spending doesn't result in a bunch of wasted money. The $7 billion it spent on R&amp;D between 1992 and 2013 resulted in about $50 billion in cumulative sales, the firm said. The company also said additional R&amp;D spending will result in $120 billion in additional sales over the next 10 years.  This chart of R&amp;D spending as a percentage of revenue drives home how much less Valeant spends on R&amp;D than some of its biggest pharmaceutical rivals. The Companies / Business Insider Other Skeptics Valeant's aggressiveness has gotten significant attention in the market. Jeremy Levin, former CEO of Teva Pharmaceuticals, told The Wall Street Journal that "Valeant will eventually run out of things to buy ... a company without R&amp;D short term and midterm can be viable, but long term is not."  John Hempton, a noted finance blogger at Bronte Capital, has also expressed concerns about Valeant and is short the stock. He has promised a series of posts analyzing Valeant's financials. Business Insider's Linette Lopez detailed some of the problems with Valeant's ploy, writing that Ackman and Valeant aren't seeking to buy Allergan but swallow it whole and digest it quickly.  Also following Valeant's first offer for Allergan, The Financial Times' John Gapper argued that if the entire pharmaceutical industry adopted Valeant's approach, drug discovery would grind to a halt. Gapper outlined two visions for the pharmaceutical industry, one where companies invest heavily in new drugs and another where R&amp;D spending is cut "to save cash and please Wall Street."  Gapper called it a "moral choice." What Now? Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderFollowing Valeant and Ackman's latest offer, Ackman disclosed in an SEC filing that his Pershing Square fund is preparing a hostile bid for Allergan.  A hostile bid is when a potential acquirer engages directly with the shareholders of the company, rather than the company's board, regarding its takeover proposal.  A hostile bid now seems likely given that Allergan's CEO said Valeant's latest deal isn't worth discussing. Ackman owns nearly 10% of Allergan's stock, and the company has already adopted a so-called poison-pill provision preventing any shareholder from acquiring more than 10% of the company, so his voting sway over Allergan's decision will not increase. This story is unlikely to reach a conclusion soon: Citing analysts at BMO Capital, the FT said the fight could last "well into" 2015.  The Death Of Pharma? Just this week, Merck purchased pharmaceutical company Idenix Pharmaceuticals for $3.85 billion; in its first quarter, Idenix recorded no revenues. And while Merck is certainly betting that Idenix's hepatitis-C drugs in development will be approved, the deal essentially amounts to a one-time R&amp;D expense.  R&amp;D spending is not dead.  But others have started to imitate Valeant's methods for boosting their stock price. The Wall Street Journal notes that Endo Pharmaceuticals has begun to adopt an acquisition strategy similar to Valeant's.  Shares of Endo are up more than 77% over the last year. Valeant's strategy has also been a boon for shareholders, who have seen the stock gain more than eight times since Pearson joined the company as CEO in February 2008.  Whether or not Valeant and Ackman are successful in acquiring Allergan, this deal has raised eyebrows among investors and executives in both the pharmaceutical space and the broader market.  Expect pharmaceuticals companies to start taking closer looks at their strategies before someone else does. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/vikicys A few years ago, Rene DeLambert and his wife, Lisa, celebrated their 25th wedding anniversary by spending two weeks on Grand Cayman Island. A big bulk of this trip was on their airline and credit card issuers' dime. "I did the suite overlooking the water, the car, the air, the scuba diving virtually all on points," DeLambert recalls. "It was a $6,000 vacation," but when all was said and tallied, the couple had only paid about $2,000 out of pocket, mostly on food. (Their credit cards' annual fees are also included in what they paid.) DeLambert, who runs the blog Delta Points, is an extreme mileager -- someone who has made a full-time hobby out of gaming the travel rewards system. Some of his tactics aren't likely to appeal to the average consumer. For instance, DeLambert takes "mileage runs," trips taken solely for the purpose of scoring more miles and, more importantly, maintaining his elite status. That's how you increase your chances of being upgraded to business class, he says. Still, there are some strategies less-frequent fliers can utilize if they want to take a trip primarily on points or miles. First and foremost, "you need to plan in advance," says Scott Mackenzie, founder of Hack My Trip, because traveling for free requires a certain amount of strategizing. Here's why: Frequent fliers generally use travel loyalty and credit card rewards programs in tandem to minimize the cost of travel. Travel loyalty programs generally award customers points or miles every time they fly a particular airline or stay at a sponsoring hotel. Credit card rewards programs, of course, generate points on purchases. Bankrate.comSavvy travelers can score a free vacation by using, for example, airline loyalty miles to fund a flight and credit card rewards points to pay for hotel rooms. But that's not the only redemption option out there. To bolster offerings, credit card issuers, hotels and airlines often partner with one another. This creates opportunities to pool points or miles. For example, airlines generally offer high redemption rates of around "1 to 3 cents per mile" when you book an award ticket through their loyalty program, says Ed Perkins, contributing editor for Smarter Travel. But their inventory is limited and it takes time to accumulate miles -- especially when you don't travel often -- so it may be a good idea to transfer your credit card rewards to a partnering airline rewards program to snag a deal on a plane ticket. It takes time, however, to figure out your preferred program's often-complex terms and conditions and to calculate what redemption options are most worthwhile. (Points can be worth more or less depending on where you are looking to apply them.) The travel loyalty game "is as simple or as complicated as you want to make it," says Tim Winship, editor and publisher of FrequentFlier.com. "If you are willing to invest a significant amount of time and energy in keeping up with what the programs are doing and how they interrelate … you can certainly squeeze more value out (of them)." Mackenzie estimates the average consumer needs "ideally a year" to target an airline or hotel chain, sign up for the right affinity programs, identify applicable partnerships and scour for deals that maximize earnings potential. This time frame also allows you to work on the other big component of scoring free travel: building up ample reward reserves. Using a robust rewards credit card to pay for everyday purchases -- with the caveat, of course, that you're paying off monthly balances in full, lest you lose the points to interest -- is the obvious way to accumulate points over time. "Run as many household bills through your preferred credit card," Perkins says. You'll still be paying off your credit card bill every month with the funds you had planned to use to just pay the bill, but this way you're getting something out of it. There are also ways to rack up rewards more quickly. "The most lucrative by far is credit card sign-on bonuses," says Greg Davis-Kean, author of the Frequent Miler blog. These promotions allow prospective cardholders to earn tons of miles or points once they meet certain spending thresholds. For example, one credit card company is offering 40,000 bonus points -- the equivalent of $400 in gift cards or $500 in travel rewards -- if a new cardholder spends $3,000 in the first three months of opening the account. Bankrate.com The caveat here is to pick your introductory incentives -- and their associated credit cards -- wisely. Remember, you'll have to spend to qualify for the bonus and you don't want to wind up with credit card bills you can't afford. Plus, opening too many credit cards in a very short time frame could ding your credit score. You can also earn extra points or miles by patronizing your issuer's online shopping portal. Oftentimes, these portals offer well over standard earning percentages on purchases you could be planning to make anyway. One credit card company, for example, has been known to feature 10 percent cash back at Macy's. "Depending on your shopping habits, the points can add up fast," Davis-Kean says. And if you're looking to bulk up on airline loyalty points, check to see if your preferred carrier has a dining program. "If you drink at one of their approved restaurants or bars, you automatically get points," says Jason Kessler, founder of FlyandDine.com. Travel rewards credit cards "come pretty well-loaded with benefits," Winship says, so anyone who flies enough, even for business, to warrant their often high annual fees may want to add one to their payments arsenal. Benefits include free airport lounge access, waived baggage and/or foreign transaction fees and even additional redemption options, such as redeeming miles for a travel statement credit. The best card for you, however, depends primarily on which airline or hotel you're most likely to frequent. It's not a good idea, for instance, to apply for an airline card if the carrier doesn't have a hub in your area. Winship also suggests customers call up airlines if they're hitting a wall when trying to book award tickets online. While many carriers charge for phone service, the fee will be imposed only if the customer books a flight, and the trade-off may be worth it. Customer service representatives "can do things that you can't do," Winship says, which in turn enables customers to "increase significantly their odds of getting where they're going using" miles or points. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mosab Omar  The IMF has warned that housing prices around the world are trending above historical averages, and that some areas appear to be "overheating." In recent remarks, IMF deputy managing director Min Zhu said home price growth in developing markets has been robust, but now risks getting out of hand. "For many emerging market economies in Asia and Latin America... mortgage credit and house price growth remain strong, and house prices in metropolitan areas show signs of overheating." Zhu also highlighted Australia, Belgium, Canada, Norway and Sweden as places were home prices have swung out ahead of rents and incomes, although the risk of a sharp correction differed country to country. "While a recovery in the housing market is surely a welcome development, we need to guard against another unsustainable boom," Zhu wrote in a follow-up blog Wednesday. Global Property GuideIn its latest note, Global Property Guide, a real estate group, said that momentum from high-growth housing markets like the Philippines and Taiwan was now passing to New Zealand — which just raised interest rates — and Australia, as well as the Gulf and parts of Europe. GPG did note that interventionist policies in China and Singapore has helped cool those markets.  Still, they wrote, there is a global home price boom, and it is accelerating. "In fact, many housing markets are now considered overvalued." Here's their table of Q1 price growth around the world. Some of the year-on-year figures are insane. Let's see what everyone's learned when this happened last time. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mark Blinch Jobless claims hit 317,000. Consensus was for 310,000, down slightly from a revised 313,000 prior. Continuing claims also climbed more than expected, reaching 2,614,000 against a consensus estimate of 2,605,000, and 2,603,000 prior. "In one line: Seasonal quirk explains the increase; expect a clear drop next week," Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson said. "The seasonal adjustment for this week is so unfavorable that we are quite pleased by this number; it could easily have been significantly higher. The seasonal quirk should reverse next week, pushing claims down towards the 300K mark. The underlying trend in claims is still falling, albeit quite slowly, but the decline already recorded this year is more than enough to suggest that  payroll gains of 225K-plus ought to be sustainable, other things equal." FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoCarl NesensohnRetail sales were up 0.3% month-over-month in May. This was below expectations for a 0.6% rise. This however follows after a huge upward revision to April data, which saw retail sales climb 0.5%, compared to an initial 0.1% rise. Core retail sales (ex auto and gas) were flat, missing expectations for a 0.4% rise. Again, April core retail sales were revised up to show a 0.3% rise, compared with an initial read that showed a 0.1% fall. "Total May sales were boosted by a 1.4% rise in autos, signalled by the unit sales data last week, as well as a 1.1% jump in the building materials component," Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics wrote in a note to clients.  "Our measure of core sales, which excludes autos, gasoline and food, rose a modest 0.2%, but Q2 as a whole is headed for a 7%-plus annualized gain, restoring sales growth  to trend after the weather-afflicted 0.3% Q1 increase." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGolf: U.S Open-Practice RoundGolf star Phil Mickelson was not involved in insider trading in the shares of Clorox Co when billionaire investor Carl Icahn was attempting an unsolicited takeover of the consumer products company in 2011, the New York Times reported, citing people briefed on the probe. Clorox was among the stocks that U.S. authorities were examining as part of a three-year investigation into well-timed trades by Mickelson and Las Vegas gambler William Walters. The FBI and the Securities and Exchange Commission did not find evidence that Mickelson traded Clorox shares, but Icahn and Walters remain under investigation over Clorox, the report said citing the people.  Mickelson's agent and representatives for Carl Icahn could not be reached for comment outside regular U.S. business hours. The federal authorities believed that Icahn may have shared details about his stock bid with Walters, who later passed on the information to Mickelson. The FBI is pursuing a criminal investigation in the case, while the SEC is running a parallel civil inquiry. Mickelson, 43, a three-time Masters champion and one of the world's highest-paid athletes, earlier said he had done nothing wrong and was cooperating with the investigation.  Although, Mickelson is not connected to the Clorox trades, he is not in the clear on Dean Foods Co &lt;DF.N&gt;. The FBI, federal prosecutors in Manhattan and the SEC continue to investigate well-timed trades made by Mickelson and Walters in shares of Dean Foods in the summer of 2012, the newspaper said, citing people briefed on the matter.   (Reporting by Ankit Ajmera, Narottam Medhora and Ankush Sharma in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason LeeA female honour guard has lipstick applied as they prepare for an official welcoming ceremony for Italy's Prime Minister Matteo Renzi outside the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, June 11, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Washington Backsliding. In the wake of Eric Cantor's loss, commentators are saying conservative House members may now feel emboldened to avoid any form of compromise on their issues, leading the government back into a  shutdown, BI's Brett LoGiurato says. CNBC's John Harwood, quoting a former GOP leadership aide, wrote on Twitter Wednesday that reauthorization bills on everything from the Highway Trust Fund to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to the Export-Import bank could be in jeopardy. And, the aide added, "We may be staring at government shutdown a month before election." IMF Warns On Housing. The Washington body said housing prices are well above historical averages around the world, and that prices in major urban cores of Asia and Latin American "show signs of overheating." World Bank Cuts Forecast. The other Washington body slashed global GDP estimates to 2.8% from 3.2%, citing America's harsh winter and the knock-on effect of the Ukraine crisis.  Oil Spikes. Instability in Iraq has finally caught up with oil markets, which spiked $2 to $111.98.  Lululemon Is Falling. The yogawear makers announced earnings that topped estimates but issued weak guidance. Shares are down 6.5%.  "The Machine." HP says it is rolling out an ultra-fast computer, which it is for now simply referring to as The Machine, that can process data instantly while using hardly any power, BI's Julie Bort writes. HP shares are up 1.2% pre-market.   Australia's Mixed Jobs Report. Employers unexpected cut payrolls, but the unemployment rate held steady.  New Zealand Raises Rates. The country's reserve bank said the economy possessed considerable momentum, and gave no indication that tightening would end. The Kiwi jumped 0.8%.  Data. At 8:30 we get retail sales data. Expectations are for a gain of 0.4% MOM. Also at 8:30 we get weekly jobless claims. Consensus is for 310,000, down from 312,000 last week. At 10 a.m. we get business inventories, which are expected to have climbed 0.4%.  Markets. U.S. futures are flat. Stocks were down in Europe and Asia.  FREE AppDownload
The situation in Iraq — in which members of the Al-Qaeda-linked ISIS are taking over more and more of the country — is increasingly tipping over into the media, as people realize what a big deal this is. There's been some talk about how it's a surprise that oil hasn't been reacting more to the news, though in fact oil has been on a nice run in recent days. And this morning it's surging again. FinViz FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersService engineer of ThyssenKrupp AG inspects door inside elevator shaft in BerlinBRUSSELS (Reuters) - Euro zone industrial output rebounded with a twice-as-strong as expected monthly rise in April thanks to energy and non-durable goods production, official data showed on Thursday, adding to positive signs that the bloc's economy continues to grow. Output at factory gates in the 18 countries sharing the euro expanded 0.8 percent on the month in April following a downwardly revised -0.4 percent drop in March, against market expectations of a 0.4 percent rise. When compared with the same period of last year, production grew by a much stronger than anticipated 1.4 percent, following an upwardly revised 0.2 percent rise in March, previously reported as a 0.1 percent drop. Economists polled by Reuters expected 0.9 percent annual growth. The monthly expansion, strongest in five months, was mainly driven by a 2.5 percent rise in energy production, followed by a 2.1 percent increase in non-durable consumer goods output. Production of capital goods was the only sector showing a monthly decline, with a 0.1 percent drop. Industrial production in Portugal, which exited an international bailout in May and saw strong investor appetite for its bonds this week, had production rising by a record 6.7 percent on the month in April. Spain had monthly production rising at its fastest pace since August 2012 and Ireland's industry recorded its strongest annual rise in April since November 2010, according to Eurostat. Finland and Malta were the only two euro zone countries with production falling on the month in April, while the bloc's second and third largest economies - France and Italy, returned to monthly expansion in April. Output in Germany, the euro zone's growth engine, edged up by a smaller-than-expected 0.2 percent on the month as the spring rebound turned out weaker than usual due to a mild winter. Outside the euro zone, Britain enjoyed its strongest annual growth in over three years in April, showing that the country's economic expansion was becoming less reliant on consumer demand and the recovery was broadening. The 9.5 trillion euro zone economy surprised with weaker than expected growth at the beginning of this year as strong growth in Germany was not enough to offset contractions in the Netherlands, Italy and stagnating French economy.   (Reporting by Martin Santa) FREE AppDownload
Mark Wilson / GettyWASHINGTON (AP) — Political polarization in America has broken out of the voting booth. A new survey from the Pew Research Center finds Americans are divided by ideology and partisanship not only when they cast ballots, but also in choosing where to live, where to get their news and with whom to associate. And peaceful coexistence is increasingly difficult. According to the poll, the share of Americans who hold across-the-board conservative or liberal views has doubled in the last decade, from 10 percent in 2004 to 21 percent today. Only 39 percent of Americans have an even mix of liberal and conservative positions, down from 49 percent 10 years ago. The numbers of ideological purists are larger among the politically engaged than the general public, suggesting the ideological stalemates that have become more common in Washington and statehouses around the country are likely to continue. A third of those who say they regularly vote in primaries have all-or-nothing ideological views, as do 41 percent who say they have donated money to a campaign. And among partisans, ideological purity is now the standard. Majorities in both parties hold either uniformly liberal (on the Democratic side) or conservative (among the GOP) views. The shift toward ideological purity has been more visible among Republicans due to the popularity of the tea party, seen most recently this week in House Majority Leader Eric Cantor's loss to a tea party-based challenger in Virginia, but the survey found it's happening in nearly equal measure among Democrats. Those differences in visibility are partly due to the Democratic hold on the White House, according to Pew Research Center Vice President Michael Dimock. "Levels of alarm about the direction of the nation, and about the 'threat' the other party poses to the country, are substantially higher on the right than on the left right now, and at least in part this reflects the fact that Barack Obama is in the White House," Dimock said. But Democrats have expressed their share of distrust in the past, he noted in an email. "Democrats felt pretty passionately about George W. Bush and the GOP in his second term," he said. The survey used a battery of 10 questions on issues such as regulation of business, use of the military, the environment and immigration to assess ideological leanings. Across nine of the 10 issues tested, the views of Democrats and Republicans have grown further apart since 1994. These ideological shifts have been accompanied by increasing animosity across party lines, and those on opposite sides of the partisan and ideological divide are now more apt to separate themselves in their personal lives as well. About 8 in 10 Democrats say they have an unfavorable opinion of the Republican Party, and for 82 percent of Republicans, the feeling is mutual. This cross-party dislike has increased by double digits on both sides. Among those with ideologically consistent views in each party, many go further than dislike and say they see the other side as a threat to the nation's well-being. Republicans with consistently conservative views are more apt than Democrats with a strictly liberal view to see the opposite party as a threat, however, 66 percent to 50 percent.Amid all this rancor, partisans and those with clear ideological leanings are more often choosing to associate only with those who hold views similar to their own. Two-thirds of consistent conservatives and half of consistent liberals say most of their close friends share their political views. Three in 10 on each side of the divide say it's important to them to live in a place where most people share their political views. And one-quarter of consistent liberals say they'd be unhappy if an immediate family member married a Republican, 30 percent of consistent conservatives say the same about a union with a Democrat. The findings are based on a telephone survey of 10,013 randomly selected adults nationwide, conducted between Jan. 23 and March 16. Results based on the full sample have a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 1.1 percentage points. ___ Online: Pew Research Center: http://www.pewresearch.org ___ Follow Jennifer Agiesta on Twitter: http://www.twitter.com/JennAgiesta Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
O.J. Is Innocent And I Can Prove It by William C. Dear In an exhaustive book, "O.J. Is Innocent And I Can Prove It," private investigator William C. Dear details his 18-year investigation of the June 12, 1994, murders of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ron Goldman. Dear concludes that O.J. didn't kill his ex-wife and her friend — but he did visit the scene of the crime shortly after it occurred — and that evidence suggests his son Jason (who was 24 at the time) did it in a rage killing. Dear made a list of all potential suspects, visited the crime scene and other relevant places, conducted interviews, established a clear timeline of events, debunked alibis, collected evidence and generally aimed to subvert false assumptions made by the LAPD. Dear's goal is that the information "will lead to the convening of a special grand jury, an arrest, and a conviction for these senseless murders." To most of those who watched the famous "white Bronco" low-speed chase and trial after the killings in 1994, it will likely seem inconceivable that someone other than Simpson committed the murders, but Dear cites some compelling evidence to support his case. At the very least, it seems Jason Simpson should have been considered a suspect, which he never was. (And if there is any conceivable explanation for O.J. Simpson's bizarre behavior after the murders other than that he killed his ex-wife, it is that he knew that his son had killed Nicole Brown Simpson and wanted to protect him.) Importantly, this is not the first time Dear has investigated a murder. He used the same method to solve the murder of an Ohio man named Dean Milo, which resulted in 11 people (including Milo's brother) being sent to jail. We've pulled out the biggest reasons why Dear considers OJ's son a major suspect. FREE AppDownload
Margin CallIt's been a quiet week for the economy, but today we get some good stuff. From Calculated Risk: • At 8:30 AM ET, Retail sales for May will be released. The consensus is for retail sales to increase 0.6% in May, and to increase 0.4% ex-autos.• Also at 8:30 AM, the initial weekly unemployment claims report will be released. The consensus is for claims to decrease to 309 thousand from 312 thousand. Retail sales should be particularly interesting. FREE AppDownload
Jonathan Ernst/Reuters House Majority Leader Eric Cantor's stunning loss in his Republican primary this week could have effects far beyond his district and far beyond the internal politics of the Republican Party. Some are worrying about what Cantor's loss could mean for the economy. The Tea Party has become emboldened, and there is the potential for more discord in Congress, just as a series of cliffs and key policy fights loom on the horizon. CNBC's John Harwood, quoting a former GOP leadership aide, wrote on Twitter on Wednesday that reauthorization bills on everything from the Highway Trust Fund to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to the Export-Import Bank could be in jeopardy.  And, the aide added, "We may be staring at government shutdown a month before election." The possibility of a second federal government shutdown in two years seemed much too dramatic for about dozen people in and around Capitol Hill, to whom Business Insider reached out, considering the immediate damage last year to the Republican Party's brand.  One Senate aide said Republicans need to "chill out — they're still in freak-out mode." But there is genuine worry the reauthorization bills could be in trouble, which could in turn spell trouble for the economy at a time when it is just starting to improve.  A solution on the Highway Trust Fund, for example, has been a key concern of lawmakers on both sides for the past few months, and it has been painted as Congress' next big fight. The fund, which is financed by gasoline taxes and supports tens of thousands of infrastructure projects across the country, will run out of money sometime this summer.  Congress has yet to come up with a way to fix it, with various members trying to throw a solution at the wall to see if it sticks. So far, House Republicans have proposed replenishing the fund by scaling back U.S. Postal Service deliveries on Saturdays, but conservative groups have come out in staunch opposition to that plan.  The Club for Growth and Heritage Action both have said if that's the best solution, the federal government should devolve the fund to the states. With Cantor on his way out as majority leader, some Democrats are beginning to worry about a familiar script taking a dark turn — things coming down to familiar last-minute negotiations without a dealmaker.  "Cantor is someone we’ve looked to in the past to help get some deals through, and whether his replacement will be interested in playing a similar role is certainly a big question," a Senate Democratic aide told Business Insider. Similarly, Cantor's loss threatens reauthorization of the low-cost lending of the Export-Import Bank, the federal credit agency that finances deals the private sector is unable or unwilling to. Its authorization is set to expire on Sept. 30.  One of Cantor's most talked-about potential replacements from the conservative flank, Rep. Jeb Hensarling, has said the U.S. should "exit" the bank and wants to make it a defining issue of the Republican Party. Other conservative groups, including Heritage and Club for Growth, have pushed for its demise as well. Boeing, which relies heavily on financing from the bank to support its sales, saw its shares slip Wednesday on Cantor's loss. One House Democratic aide told Business Insider that legislative prospects would likely hinge on how leadership shakes up in the absence of Cantor. House Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy moving up to the top spot would not produce much change, and the aide said Democrats could count on him to make deals.  But "if the Tea Party takes over leadership, all bets are off," the aide said. Cantor's loss, and whether it signals a trend, could mean another protracted fight over raising the nation's debt ceiling next spring, especially if Republicans recapture control of the U.S. Senate in November. It would give the GOP control of both chambers of Congress, and it would make President Barack Obama's stance of not negotiating over the debt ceiling untenable.Said Potomac Research analyst Greg Valliere on Wednesday: "Forget about any other deal-making; an ugly, market-rattling debt-ceiling fight now looms in March 2015." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonGood morning! Yesterday markets did something they very rarely do anymore: They fell. A little. Today: Not much is going on. US futures are higher. European stocks are a little higher, and that's it. Crude prices just spiked a little, and it feels as though the situation in Iraq is on the verge of becoming a major story as Al-Qaeda-linked group ISIS is taking over more and more of the country, including areas that are dominated by oil. Today we get both retail sales and initial jobless claims in the US. FREE AppDownload
