REUTERS/Denis BalibouseThere’s an endless parade of articles and pundits today discussing the historical monthly returns of September.  It’s not a very good month historically.  But we see this stuff every few months.  In January the media will run with the “January effect”.  Then in May they’ll pump the “sell in May” story.  Then in September they’ll pump the scary September stories.  Then in October they’ll talk about that time in 1987 when the stock market crashed.  Then in December they’ll start talking about the “Santa Claus rally”.  Well, I have some news for you about all of it: ALL OF THIS HISTORICAL MONTHLY MARKET RETURN DATA IS USELESS Now, stock traders love this stuff because they think the markets are deterministic and totally predictable.  And most academics will tell you that the markets are stochastic and random.  The truth, as is generally the case, is somewhere in the middle.  Past data can give you a general idea of what might occur in the future (assuming you have a decent grasp of the underlying drivers of the future potential returns), but we have to account for the stochastic component of any market.   And this is where a reliance on the monthly historical return data becomes messy because there is no underlying fundamental driver that could explain the data. From a probabilistic perspective we want to approach the markets using a sound understanding of why markets can be deterministic at times.  For instance, I know, with a high probability, that human beings will innovate and produce in a capitalist system over long periods of time.  And I know, with a high probability, that this will result in higher profits and higher stock prices over time.  Therefore, we should expect that stock performance does not appear to be all that random over long periods of time.  It should, with some variance, move from the bottom left of the picture to the top right.  There is a fundamental driver behind that deterministic perspective and we can, with a high probability, predict the outcome simply by understanding the underlying driver of future potential outcomes. The monthly return data, however, is largely random.  There is no reliable reason why the month of January should consistently generate higher returns than the month of February.  These data sets are largely comprised of random noise defined by randomly named time periods and then touted by the media to generate press.  There is no underlying rationale for anything occurring here that can help you understand the future better or place trades in a manner that can improve the odds of you generating higher future returns.  And that’s the problem with these reports on historical monthly returns.  Advocates of such data are using largely random variables to attempt to determine something deterministic.  And this renders the underlying foundation flawed making the utility of such metrics useless. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonThese traders are not watching porn. They're working.An internal investigation at Credit Suisse into trader misconduct has unearthed allegations of traders watching porn in the office, the Wall Street Journal reports.  From the WSJ [via Dealbreaker]: Credit Suisse has accused the trader, Zoe Henderson, of improperly sharing client communications with her husband, a London-based trader at a rival bank, via electronic chat rooms, the people said. Credit Suisse's months-long review of chat transcripts and interviews with employees also have turned up allegations of traders on the same London desk using profane, sexist and racist language and watching sex videos on the trading floor, the people said. The alleged misconduct by traders was discovered by Credit Suisse in electronic communications from Henderson where she complained to her husband about the behavior, the report said.  Henderson's husband, Toby Henderson, works at RBC in London. He hasn't been accused of any wrongdoing and remains with his firm, the report said. Meanwhile, Henderson and her desk's managing director, Andrew Davis, are on leave. The investigation is still ongoing. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Niccolo' BrussaJennifer Lawrence1. First, the iCloud scandal, where Apple is in denial. There’s been a lot said about Steve Jobs’ ability to construct a “reality distortion field” around Apple’s products, but this is extraordinary. Apple is denying its systems were breached in the er, breach that led to hundreds of celebrities’ nude photos stolen off iCloud in a mass hack by someone at infamous forum site 4chan. Apple says it was a targeted attack on user names, passwords and security systems, but not iCloud or FindmyiPhone. Just a couple of recaps to note here – Apple yesterday fixed a flaw in FindMyiPhone that made it vulnerable and hackers have been offering to rip iCloud accounts for years. 2. To the markets, where the impact after a great day yesterday was a further 3-point gain on the September SPI 200 contracting to 5,649. Iron Ore is down again and China looks like it is coming after the iron ore miners so there could be some action in that sector today. The Nikkei ripped 1.24% higher as earnings rose 2.6% and the yen weakened against the US dollar to sit above 105 this morning – its highest level since December 2013. Shanghai was strong as well, up 30 points or 1.36% to 2,266. The Hang Seng was largely unchanged. 3. The Aussie dollar has done a stunning job holding in, all things considered. Not only did the US dollar crush the yen (105.08) and sterling (1.6467) but the RBA governor questioned China’s housing market and upped the rhetoric on the Aussie dollar level in his statement yesterday. Certainly the Aussie dollar is down more than half a cent at 0.9277 this morning, but that’s a solid performance. Elsewhere, the euro held in after recent falls and is at 1.3132 this morning. 4. On the data front today, the Q2 GDP for Australia is out at 11.30am. The market is looking for a fairly soft outcome between 0.4% and 0.6%. We’ll also get the AiG performance of services report and Reserve Bank of Australia governor Glenn Stevens is due to speak. Offshore, we get HSBC and Markit services PMI for China. 5. The Government finally achieved a key election promise yesterday in repealing the mining tax, but it came at a cost. Especially if you’re a 25-year-old Australian, as it looks like you could lose $100,000 in super savings because part of the deal with Clive Palmer includes rises in the compulsory rate being delayed by a further three years on top of earlier delays in the budget. It’s now put off for six years. 6. Clive Palmer hates the Ice Bucket Challenge. To be fair, we’re all over it, no doubt including this kid from Geelong who wound up with three severed tendons in his arm from his attempt. Palmer expressed his views just before his PUP stablemate Jacqui Lambie was drenched on the Parliament House Lawn for Ten Network show The Project. He stormed off, literally kicked a bucket and told The Tele: “I just don’t like the ice bucket challenge … It’s my business, see you later.” 7. If you think house prices will always go up, you’re a fool. At least that’s according to ANZ chairman and former Future Fund boss David Gonski, who last night told the Australian British Chamber of Commerce that the majors were “very aware of history” when it came to lending for mortgages. “The fact is, anyone who believes prices always go up is, I think, a fool,” he warned. 8. If you’re still not confident Apple has the situation under control and insist on uploading nude selfies, here’s how to make sure hackers don’t share them with the rest of the world. 9. Life on the fringe of mobster culture in the 60s. Yes, it was like The Godfather, according to one man who told a Quora audience of his experience in the 60s. He’s not saying his dad was a mobster, just close to it, with friends who were. He shared some great stories about “safekeeping” things, hanging with Al Capone’s nephew and the velvet walls of a mob boss’s house and actually gets a bit nostalgic about the honour and class of it all. 10. Hate your desk job but love the money? Life in a cubicle can be depressing, so here are 12 high-paying jobs that you could probably switch to without too much training. They feature a lot of time being up and about, and pay pretty well too, according to data from the US Bureau of Labour Statistics. Thank us later. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Traders and investors around the world are wondering when the U.S. Federal Reserve, the U.K.'s Bank of England, and other big central banks around the world are going to raise interest rates. For BCA Research's Dhaval Joshi, a better question might be how long those rates will last before they must come down again. In an August note, which we heard about via FT Alphaville's Cardiff Garcia, Joshi points out that at least four monetary authorities — those of Sweden, the Eurozone, Norway and Australia — have attempted to raise rates following the Great Recession, only to have to lower them once again. "...With most developed economies (and now many developing economies too) up to their necks in debt, the scope for a further sustained credit expansion is automatically cut off, irrespective of what policymakers desperately try to do," he writes. "The elevated level of debt also means that the ability to absorb higher interest rates is extremely limited. Note that those advanced economies that have tried to raise rates since 2008 have had to reverse course very quickly." For Sweden, Joshi notes that when the Riksbank started tightening again in 2010, the interest rate couldn't move beyond 2% before the central bank had to rapidly backtrack. "The volte-face was because the modest 1.75% tightening has had a devastating impact," he says. "The Swedish economy has tipped into outright deflation, and the Riksbank has cut the repo rate back to the zero bound. "Similarly, in Norway, the central bank tightened by just 1% and then quickly loosened again. Even in Australia – which is relatively immune to the euro area’s debt crisis, and which has not seen a recession for 25 years – the Reserve Bank of Australia marched interest rates up by only 1.75% before marching them down again." Unlike some of its peers, the Fed has kept its benchmark rate unchanged at 0.00-0.25% since December 2008. The last thing it wants to do is raise rates and then immediately reverse course. BCA   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason ReedFormer U.S. Senator Trent Lott (R-MS)WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Gazprombank, Russia's third largest bank and the target of Western sanctions, has hired two former U.S. senators to lobby on its behalf in Washington, according to a disclosure form. Former Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott and former Senator John Breaux were listed as lobbyists for a subsidiary of the bank, according to a filing in the Senate last week by Squire Patton Boggs, a law and lobbying firm. Squire Patton Boggs declined to comment. The disclosure form said Lott and Breaux would focus their efforts on banking laws and regulations, "including applicable sanctions." The disclosure was first reported by the watchdog group Center for Public Integrity. Gazprombank is owned in part by Russia's energy company Gazprom OAO. In July, several countries blocked the bank from raising long-term capital in Western financial markets in response to Russia's suspected backing of rebels in eastern Ukraine. Lott, a Republican from Mississippi, spent 34 years in Congress before retiring in 2007. Lott and Breaux, a Democrat from Louisiana, founded their own lobbying firm, Breaux Lott Leadership Group, which Patton Boggs acquired in 2010. (Reporting by Anna Yukhananov; Editing by Grant McCool) FREE AppDownload
Larry Busacca/Getty ImagesDonald Trump's daughter Ivanka Trump has become an icon all on her own.Life is easy if you're born to billionaire parents, but it's even sweeter if you have dashing good looks, too. That's the case with the 26 beautiful children of business magnates, fashion moguls, and casino tycoons. And while some of these heirs have cashed in on their family names, many are striking out on their own, starting charities, or taking over the family business. FREE AppDownload
Aston MartinAston Martin V12 VantageDETROIT (Reuters) - U.S. Aston Martin dealers say they are in danger of closing if federal regulators refuse to give them an exemption to safety rules that would allow them to keep selling all four models the British luxury sports car maker produces. U.S. Aston Martin dealers cannot sell DB 9 and Vantage models produced after Aug. 31. The 101-year-old maker of sports cars, including James Bond’s original car of choice, asked the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration in March for an exemption of up to three years to federal side-impact safety standards. Aston Martin says lack of an exemption would cause "substantial economic hardship" to the money-losing brand. Aston Martin said that with money tight during the recent recession, it was forced to delay redesigning the DB9 and Vantage so they would meet new side air bag standards that NHTSA has phased in since 2010. A NHTSA spokeswoman on Tuesday said the agency has not yet ruled on the Aston Martin exemption. "The agency has been in contact with Aston Martin regarding their exemption request and is awaiting additional information from their dealers," she said. An Aston Martin dealer said he was told by a NHTSA official that a ruling could be expected sometime this year. NHTSA can exempt some manufacturers that sell fewer than 5,000 vehicles annually in the United States. Aston Martin sold 4,200 worldwide last year, the company told regulators. Aston MartinAston Martin DB9 VolanteWithout the DB9 and the Vantage to sell, some of the 35 U.S. Aston Martin stores will be forced to close, said James R. Walker, chairman of the U.S. Aston Martin dealer advisory council. A rejection could keep 670 vehicles out of the United States, according to Aston Martin. It wants exemptions for the DB9 model, priced at $186,525, until September 2016, and for the Vantage, which sells for $119,525, until September 2017. Aston Martin has struggled in recent years. It is not part of a wider automotive group like other high-end British brands such as Tata-owned Jaguar Land Rover and Volkswagen-owned Bentley &lt;vowg_p.de&gt;. The central England-based firm hired senior Nissan executive Andy Palmer as its new boss after nine months without a CEO, Reuters reported on Tuesday. Daimler AG has expressed interest in greater involvement with Aston Martin. Aston Martin CFO Hanno Kirner told Reuters in March that despite difficulties he expected the brand to return to "significant" profitability after 2016. Walker, who sells Aston Martin cars in the Washington, D.C. area, said that a "substantial number" of 530 jobs linked to U.S. dealers would likely be lost if stores close. Dealers stand to lose 25 percent of their sales volume in the short term, pushing many into the red, he told regulators in a letter.   (Reporting by Bernie Woodall in Detroit; additional reporting by Costas Pitas in London; Editing by Dan Grebler) FREE AppDownload
Bradipo/FlickrFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Why Americans Are So Bad At Saving Money (The Atlantic) In 1970s, the average American household saved 12% of its income while households today save only 5%. According to The Atlantic's Derek Thompson, Americans are bad at saving due to reasons tied to math, psychology, and economics. Mathematically, many Americans simply don't make enough money to have anything leftover to save, says Thompson. In fact, the bottom 40% of population save less than 1% of their monthly income.  However, the psychology of saving is a struggle even for those who aren't struggling financially. Thompson argues that the reason for this is because spending money is satisfying immediately while saving money is satisfying at a much later time. Thompson also cites the even widening wealth gap as a contributing cause for the low savings rate. "The wealth gap encourages some low income family to spend more on status items like jewelry and nice shoes instead of saving," says Thompson.  China's State-Owned Enterprises May Finally Be A Viable Investment (AllianceBernstein) The two traditional routes to investing in China have been through either expensive high growth stocks or risky contrarian plays. However, Alliance Bernstein's Stuart Rae, chief investment officer of Asia Pacific and John Lin, portfolio manager, write that there is now a third option that wasn't available before, state-owned enterprises (SOE). "It may not promise the dazzling returns some hope to achieve from China’s growth stocks, but it may be a less risky proposition than those contrarian plays." The new investment opportunity is "a result of the government’s plan to improve the profitability of SOEs," writes Rae and Lin. "The plan includes a range of measures, such as better incentives for management, corporate restructuring, spin-offs and mergers—any of which can create opportunities for investors." Here's How To Use Market Forecasts To Your Advantage (Daily Reckoning) The all-knowing market forecast is a tool investors often turn to for important insights. However, Greg Geunthner, managing editor of the Rude Awakening and Jonas Elmerraji, editor at Penny Stock Fortunes and STORM Signals, say that the information from market forecasts is best used in very specific ways.  "I have a love-hate relationship with forecasts and predictions," says Elmerraji. "Good traders don’t try to predict when an important price move is going to happen – we just react when it does. But forecasts can be very useful for figuring out context in trading. They help us gauge our risk/reward, and they’re useful for the rest of your non-trading portfolio, too.”  Your Bond Portfolio Should Resemble A Barbeque Grill (BlackRock Blog)  Matt Tucker, head of fixed income strategy at BlackRock's iShares believes your bond portfolio should resemble the mix of meats found on your Labor Day weekend barbeque grill. "Preparing the perfect meal requires an optimal balance of nutrients, just like building a portfolio requires the right savory combination of investments," writes Tucker. "The most basic protein, chicken, is a fixture of any barbecue menu. The same can be said for Treasuries in a bond portfolio," says Tucker. While, investment grade bonds are "like a prime, choice or a select cut of beef." Tucker adds, "the decadent offering of barbecued ribs at a weekend party is similar to that of high yield fixed income investments. By taking on greater risk of spilling sauce on your shirt you have the experience of a true summertime staple, and with high yield fixed income investments you are positioned for potentially higher income." Finally, he equates the exotic flavors of a kebab to the riskier emerging markets fixed income bond.  Is P/E Ratio The Correct Valuation Tool To Use Today? (Advisor Perspectives) Over the years a variety of valuation tools have been used. "A standard way to investigate market valuation is to study the historic Price-to-Earnings (P/E) ratio using reported earnings for the trailing twelve months (TTM)," writes Advisor Perspective's Doug Short. However, "proponents of this approach ignore forward estimates because they are often based on wishful thinking, erroneous assumptions, and analyst bias." Short proposes that a more accurate measure is the P/E 10 which "divides the price by a multi-year average of earnings a using 10-year average of "real" (inflation-adjusted) earnings as the denominator." Short cites research from legendary economists Benjamin Graham and David Dodd's 1934 book "Security Analysis" as the basis for his argument.  In the book, Graham and Dodd blamed "illogical P/E ratios as the cause of temporary and sometimes extreme fluctuations in the business cycle." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSignage for a BP petrol station is pictured in LondonHOUSTON (Reuters) - BP Plc &lt;bp.l&gt; asked a U.S. court on Tuesday to fire the court-appointed lawyer tasked with paying out compensation to people affected by the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill, saying Patrick Juneau had not disclosed an alleged conflict of interest before taking the job. It was the latest legal challenge to the settlement filed by the London-based oil major, which has complained previously that Juneau has been too generous and liberal when approving claims. Juneau has said he is just applying the rules of the settlement agreement. BP originally expected the March 2012 class-action settlement to resolve economic and health claims by more than 100,000 individuals and businesses to cost $7.8 billion. It has since said the uncapped program could cost $9.2 billion and that this amount could grow. The filing in U.S. District Court in New Orleans said Juneau lacks neutrality because he had advocated for claimants before the court appointed him to run the claims program.   (Reporting By Houston Newsroom) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersVan Beurden, chief executive officer of Royal Dutch Shell, gestures during a meeting with Russian President Putin at the Novo-Ogaryovo state residenceWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The head of energy company Royal Dutch Shell &lt;rdsa.l&gt; said on Tuesday that U.S. policymakers should lift the crude oil export ban because allowing the shipments would make global energy system more stable. "Policy makers here in the U.S. should embrace a truly liberalized diverse and global energy market," Shell CEO Ben van Beurden told a conference on energy at Columbia University. U.S. oil and natural gas exports "would reinforce the long term future of North American energy production," significantly improve the U.S. balance of trade, and "help to make the global energy system much more stable," he said. The United States has banned oil exports since the 1970s Arab oil embargo, but pressure on the Obama administration and on Congress to overturn the ban has risen amid the domestic shale energy boom of the last several years. Washington has approved several applications to export natural gas with the first shipments expected next year.   (Reporting by Timothy Gardner; Editing by David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerTourists have dinner as fish swim around them, at the Tianjin Haichang Polar Ocean World in Tianjin, September 1, 2014.Stocks were mixed, but little changed, on the first trading day of September, kicking off a busy week. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Monday: 1. Three pieces of economic data were released Tuesday morning. ISM's August manufacturing index came in at its highest level since March 2011, coming in at 59.0 against expectations for 57.0. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "In one line: Very strong, but probably overstating the true performance of manufacturing." Markit's August manufacturing PMI came in at 57.9, up from 55.8 in July, and serving as the index's best reading since April 2010. "Improving domestic economic fundamentals remain the key engine of growth. However, there were finally signs of external demand gaining traction in August, despite weakness across the euro area," said Markit senior economist Tim Moore. Construction spending rebounded sharply in July, jumped 1.8% after falling -0.9% in June. Ian Shepherdson said the report was strong everywhere but housing, and he expects this split to continue. 2. The manufacturing reports also follow a rash of manufacturing data out of Europe yesterday, when U.S. markets were closed for the holiday. The latest run of data shows that U.S. manufacturing is currently the strongest in the world, with France pulling up the rear. 3. Home Depot shares were the Dow's biggest loser, falling more than 2% after security blog Krebs on Security reported that the company may be the victim of a massive data breach involving customer credit cards. Krebs reported that a preliminary analysis showed the breach may include all 2,200 of the company's U.S. stores. In a statement to Business Insider, Home Depot spokesperson Paula Drake said: "At this point, I can confirm that we’re looking into some unusual activity and we are working with our banking partners and law enforcement to investigate." 4. Tesla shares were up more than 5% after Stifel Nicolaus upped its price target on the stock to $400, nearly 50% higher than the stock's pre-Labor Day price. Stifel's James Albertine said that production for the company's Model S has considerably increased from a year ago, but said ultimately momentum behind the stock may be enough to push it higher. "Tesla sentiment is like a freight train, in our view, benefiting from a well-manicured growth story that has caught the eye of a much broader investor base relative to most auto stocks," Albertine said. 5. Staples shares gained more than 8%, while Office Depot added more than 6% after Credit Suisse analyst Gary Balter wrote that the two companies should consider merging. Balter said a combination between the two companies makes "significant" financial sense, and said the cash flow position of Staples makes this company an attractive target for an activist investor or private equity firm.  6. The IMF issued a report warning that its $17 billion lifeline to Ukraine might not be enough, with Ukraine potentially needing an additional $19 billion un finding by the end of next year.  7. After the iCloud accounts of more than 100 celebrities were hacked over the weekend, Apple issued a statement on Tuesday that said, "None of the cases we have investigation ahs resulted from any breach in any of Apple's systems including iCloud of Find my iPhone."  Don't Miss: How Delta Bought A Refinery And Wound Up Saving Its Rivals A Ton Of Cash » FREE AppDownload
Shutterstock.comPledges were allegedly referred to as "whalesh*t."Last week, former Dartmouth College fraternity member Andrew Lohse released his purported tell-all memoir of his time in Greek life, charmingly titled "Confessions of an Ivy League Frat Boy." Lohse had previously chronicled the hazing he experienced as a pledge and later a brother of Dartmouth's Sigma Alpha Epsilon chapter, both in student newspaper The Dartmouth and a Rolling Stone feature on him and the school. As he tells it, he was forced to do a wide range of disturbing activities, including swimming in a kiddie pool filled with vomit and other undesirable substances. While reviews for the book have not been strong, and Lohse himself has been criticized as an unreliable narrator, "Confessions of an Ivy League Frat Boy" still offers a rarely seen look into modern fraternity culture. Here are 10 of the most ridiculous claims Lohse makes about his Greek membership: 1. Dartmouth fraternity members pride themselves on how quickly they can chug six beers As Lohse explains, a "quick six" in Dartmouth parlance is the act of "chugging six cups of beer in rapid succession, a feat intended to be performed in thirty seconds tops." However, Lohse writes, "respect was only accorded to those who would do it in under fifteen." 2. The "quick six" was often modified to be used as a punishment when a pledge messed up Lohse writes that when one of his fellow pledges lost his "pledge book," the SAE brothers forced him to complete a "quick ten," drinking 10 cups that ranged from stale beer to straight vinegar. For many of the pledges who had just expected their classmate to drink beer and water, this was a wake up call that pledging was not going to be as easy as they thought it would be. Lohse writes that the pledge who had been forced to drink the vinegar told him later that night that he had "booted blood." 3. SAE brothers only referred to pledges as "whalesh*t" Throughout the book, Lohse writes that SAE pledges were always called "whalesh*t" by brothers in the house. At one point, the pledges are being yelled at by one brother, who says, "You are not brothers. You are whalesh*t. And what does whalesh*t do?" "Whalesh*t sinks to the bottom of the ocean," the pledges answered collectively. Additionally, Lohse writes, pledges were told to answer brothers' questions by raising a "flipper" using their elbows. 4. SAE pledges recieved points for vomiting on each other while chugging milkREUTERS/Mario AnzuoniOne night, SAE pledges were gathered in the basement where they were usually forced to consume massive quantities of beer, but instead were presented with gallons of milk, one for each pledge, Lohse writes. As the brothers explained to them, each pledge had 20 minutes to finish their gallon — an impossible task without vomiting — and would also receive points for each time they vomited on another pledge. Lohse writes that one brother told them, "We'll also be playing a little game called Revolutionary War. Quite frankly, the game is self-explanatory. Five pledges line up facing five other pledges. When I yell 'Fire!' one line of soldiers boots on the other." 5. Pledges were not allowed to make themselves vomit during hazing Even though they were consuming particularly rancid foods and substances, pledges were not allowed to "pull their own trigger" to make themselves vomit, Lohse writes. Rather, according to Lohse, they were told that "you must ask a pledge brother to stick his fingers down your throat if you want to puke." Lohse reminisces about bonding with another Dartmouth student when they were both pledging SAE, noting that "pulling the trigger" for him was likely the shaky foundation for their friendship. "All that came to mind was pulling his trigger once at pledge meetings the fall before and feeling his dinner — sashimi, of all things — slide viciously over my fingers into a trash can that reeked of piss," Lohse writes. 6. Both pledges and brothers participated in a unique Dartmouth drinking tradition known as "doming" One of the first traditions pledges learned at SAE was "doming," a drinking game where students would chug beer until they vomit, according to Lohse. The person who vomited first, the SAE pledges were told, would be considered the loser, and sometimes would then get vomited on by the winner. 7. Pledges had to swim in a kiddie pool filled with unknown substances One of the most disgusting revelations from Lohse's original column in The Dartmouth was about a kiddie pool "full of vomit, urine, fecal matter, semen and rotten food products," which pledges were made to swim in while they recieved their pledge nicknames — a practice he later contributed to as a brother. In his book, Lohse expands on his experiences in the kiddie pool, calling it a "fratty baptism." "Of course, we didn't know then and could never prove its contents as pledges ... we just knew the scent, the feeling of the mixture sticking to our skins, and knew that disobeying was probably pointless," Lohse writes. 8. The pledge who had the "grimmest hookup" each week had to carry around a giant catfish stuffed animalShutterstock.comLohse describes a house tradition where every week a pledge with the "grimmest hookup story" would be forced to carry around a giant catfish stuffed animal — even to their classes. When Lohse was given the catfish one week, a professor called him out at the end of lecture to find out why exactly he had the giant stuffed animal with him. Lohse writes that he responded to his professor as the SAE brothers had told him to — "The catfish is a slut, the catfish will sleep with anyone, would you like to sleep with the catfish?" 9. SAE pledges were forced to eat a "vomelette" Another notorious revelation from Lohse's original hazing revelations was the "vomelette," a loosely described vomit-based concoction that a few pledges were made to eat. Lohse adds more detail to the vomelette incident in his book, revealing that two of his fellow pledges had to consume it after one person vomited into a pan and a brother "cracked eggs over it and added cheese and cooked it." FREE AppDownload
© Pool/AFP/File Alain JocardFrench President Francois Hollande (R) embraces German Chancellor Angela Merkel at the international D-Day commemoration ceremony in Ouistreham, on June 6, 2014Berlin (AFP) - Imagine the president of France bringing the German chancellor croissants for breakfast after an all-night summit between the sheets. Imagine no longer: this is the premise of a primetime romantic comedy which premieres Tuesday on German TV in which a workaholic German chancellor ends up falling for a dashing French leader. All resemblances to reality have been thrown to the wind in "Die Staatsaffaere" (The State Affair) with the chancellor played by German blonde bombshell Veronica Ferres, while French actor Philippe Caroit, 54, is even better looking than former French president Jacques Chirac in his prime.  While the fizz may have gone out of Franco-German relations since Francois Hollande failed to tempt pastor's daughter Angela Merkel from the narrow path of fiscal rectitude, the TV film on the SAT. 1 channel pushes the frisson of sex and power to the hilt. Ferres plays Chancellor Anna Bremer as a woman married to the job, but her cool exterior melts when she starts working alongside newly-elected French president Guy Dupont at the heart of the eurozone. During an EU summit, Bremer realises that, in fact, the two leaders already know each other -- from a passionate encounter they had 25 years earlier the night the Berlin Wall fell. As fast as you can say fiscal stimulus, the flame is re-ignited. Passions however have been less enflamed among critics. News website Spiegel Online commented that an "absurd premise for a plot doesn't necessarily have to say something negative about a film -- it could nevertheless be a sexy satire about the political class or a romantic comedy in an unusual setting". But it said the production wasn't either. Berliner Zeitung, a daily in the capital, was also unconvinced, saying that when Ferres "says such stately sentences as 'I must think of my country', unfortunately it sounds like, 'I must think of my cake in the oven.'" Ferres, 49, told the Passauer Neue Presse last month that it was "a great honour" to be able to play the world's most powerful woman and she had spoken about the film project with Chancellor Angela Merkel. "She was very amused," the paper quoted Ferres as saying, adding that a senior party ally of the chancellor had visited the set. While many might have questioned casting such a glamorous actor as Ferres to play the leader of a country accused by some of bending a whole continent to its will in the battle to save the eurozone, there are some parallels. Her past roles have included Madame Thenardier in the 2000 French TV mini-series "Les Miserables", in which she played a schemer bent on impoverishing any poor wretch who crossed her path.   FREE AppDownload
SECRichard M. Nixon, the 37th President of the United States, does not work as an underwriter at JPMorgan. However, someone named Richard M. Hixson does.  In a filing with the SEC on Tuesday afternoon, Nu Skin said that following questions regarding its credit facility document, it found that the document in question contained, "an inadvertent typographical error on the signature page." "The Amendment was signed by Richard M. Hixson, Senior Underwriter, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., not Richard M. Nixon," the company said. "As previously disclosed, the JPMC Agreement expired pursuant to its terms on August 8, 2014, prior to which all amounts outstanding thereunder were repaid." ASSOCIATED PRESSThe real Richard Milhous Nixon. The disclosure from Nu Skin came after John Hempton of Bronte Capital uncovered the oddity in one of Nu Skin's credit agreements. In a blog post published Tuesday, Hempton pointed out the unusual name listed on the document and began searching for answers. Hempton scoured the web, turning up no Richard M. Nixon except for the former president — who passed away in 1994. Hempton eventually called JPMorgan, but was unable to track down the employee in question: now, it seems, with good reason. Nu Skin is a direct-selling company, like Herbalife, that sells anti-aging products. In early August, shares of the company fell more than 20% in one session after the company said its second quarter earnings and revenue would miss expectations. Shares of Nu Skin were down more than 5% on Tuesday. Perhaps investors were spooked by the brief appearance of a ghost. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Aly SongA man looks at his Apple iPad in front an Apple logo outside an Apple store in downtown Shanghai March 16, 2012.  Dozens of nude photos were first released on anonymous message boards AnonIB and 4chan over the weekend. There are a lot of theories about how this could have occurred, but one of the most prominent suggests multiple hackers spent months getting into the seemingly secure accounts, either because they were hired to steal the photos or so they could trade the images for other things online, like more nude photos or bitcoin.  Celebrities who were hacked include "Hunger Games" star Jennifer Lawrence, singer Ariana Grande, and model Kate Upton. Apple seems to be denying responsibility, although it says it was "outraged" to learn of the breach. Apple spent 40 hours investigating the situation and concluded: "None of the cases we have investigated has resulted from any breach in any of Apple’s systems including iCloud or Find my iPhone." Apple is continuing its investigation and working with law enforcement officials to uncover more information. Here's Apple's full statement: We wanted to provide an update to our investigation into the theft of photos of certain celebrities. When we learned of the theft, we were outraged and immediately mobilized Apple’s engineers to discover the source. Our customers’ privacy and security are of utmost importance to us. After more than 40 hours of investigation, we have discovered that certain celebrity accounts were compromised by a very targeted attack on user names, passwords and security questions, a practice that has become all too common on the Internet. None of the cases we have investigated has resulted from any breach in any of Apple’s systems including iCloud® or Find my iPhone. We are continuing to work with law enforcement to help identify the criminals involved. To protect against this type of attack, we advise all users to always use a strong password and enable two-step verification. Both of these are addressed on our website at http://support.apple.com/kb/ht4232. FREE AppDownload
The authors of "Freakonomics" and "Super Freakonomics" have a third book called "Think Like A Freak." In this book, Levitt and Dubner reveal the strange way the world works, and they offer prescriptions to help change the way you think about and solve problems. Watch More: Why Soccer Players Ignore The Best Odds When It Comes To Penalty Kicks Produced by Sara Silverstein and Sam Rega. Narrated by Graham Flanagan. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Google ImagesAmerica now boasts the strongest manufacturing sector in the world. Earlier today, we learned the U.S. purchasing manager's index (PMI) for manufacturing hit 57.9, the highest level since April 2010. Any reading above 50 signals growth, while anything below signals contraction. Export sales climbed at the fastest rate in three years, and manufacturing payrolls increased at the steepest pace since March 2013. The Institute for Supply Management's U.S. manufacturing index also hit a multi-year high this morning. "The U.S. manufacturing sector has gone from strength to strength this summer, with August’s improvement in business conditions the sharpest for over four years," Markit senior economist Tim Moore said. “Impressive new business and output gains were matched by a solid rebound in employment growth. The latest survey points to the fastest upturn in payroll numbers for around a year-and-a-half, highlighting that the manufacturing sector continues to have a positive impact on overall labor market conditions." So who has the weakest manufacturing sector in the world? That would be France, whose purchasing manager's index for manufacturing fell to 46.9, shrinking at the fastest rate in 15 months. "Sharply falling output led firms to cut back employment, purchasing and stock levels further in August," Markit's Jack Kennedy said of the France PMI report. "This sort of across-the-board weakness has been a common theme in recent months and there remains very little to suggest any turnaround in fortunes will be imminent." This puts it below even Greece, not to mention Australia, Denmark and Poland. Nothing seems to be working out for France lately. French finance minister Michel Sapin just warned his country would miss its budget targets because of low inflation. "The inflation figures in the Euro zone have created a shock," he said. Here's a chart comparing the August manufacturing PMIs from Markit and JPMorgan.  Markit/JPMorgan FREE AppDownload
Flickr/BigTallGuyHome Depot may be the latest victim of a massive data breach. According to Brian Krebs of Krebs on Security, "Multiple banks say they are seeing evidence that Home Depot stores may be the source of a massive new batch of stolen credit and debit cards that went on sale this morning in the cybercrime underground."  Krebs said "there are signs" this breach at Home Depot could've been carried out by the same group of Russian and Ukrainian hackers that stole data from Target and P.F. Chang's.  It wasn't immediately clear how many stores have been impacted, but Krebs did say, "preliminary analysis indicates the breach may extend across all 2,200 Home Depot stores in the United States." In a e-mailed statement to Business Insider on Tuesday, Home Depot spokesperson Paula Drake said: "At this point, I can confirm that we’re looking into some unusual activity and we are working with our banking partners and law enforcement to investigate.  Protecting our customers’ information is something we take extremely seriously, and we are aggressively gathering facts at this point while working to protect customers.  If we confirm that a breach has occurred, we will make sure customers are notified immediately. Right now, for security reasons, it would be inappropriate for us to speculate further. We will provide further information as soon as possible." Home Depot shares fell 2% on Tuesday. Read Krebs' full report here. (via CNBC) FREE AppDownload
Jessica Kourkounis/ Getty ImagesDelta Airlines' Trainer, Pennsylvania RefineryFor airlines, the biggest cost of doing business isn't multi-million dollar planes — it's jet fuel. Air carriers deal with this in different ways, but Delta Airlines took the unprecedented step of spending $150 million for an oil refinery.  Delta made the acquisition in April of 2012 through subsidiary Monroe Energy. Since then, the Pennsylvania refinery has expanded production of jet fuel to supply Delta's operations in New York and Boston. But here's where things get interesting. The refinery has been useful for Delta. But it's also caused the price of jet fuel to fall throughout the airline industry, according to Vinay Bhaskara, a senior aviation analyst at Airchive.com.  It's simple supply and demand: by focusing production of the former Phillips 66 refinery on jet fuel, Delta has flooded the marketplace with supply it would otherwise have purchased, helping its competition to save money on fuel. The profitability of refineries is measured by something called the "crack spread" — the difference between the cost of crude oil and the price of the refined product (in this case, jet fuel). For example, if a barrel of crude oil costs $100 and the price of a barrel of jet fuel is $150, the crack spread would be positive 50.  Since Delta bought the refinery in 2012, the crack spread for jet fuel in the U.S. has dropped roughly six points, yielding a savings of $40 million dollars in fuel costs per point for the airline, Bhaskara told Business Insider. Based on his calculations, this change translates into annual savings upwards of $240 to $320 million for Delta alone.  REUTERS/George FreyDelta Airlines passenger jets are loaded and serviced at Salt Lake City International AirportThis is exactly what the airline was hoping for when it bought the refinery. In a 2012 interview, Delta CEO Richard Anderson told CNBC owning the refinery would allow the airline to participate in the pricing of jet fuel in the United States and have greater control over that critical business expenses.  Over the past few decades, many airlines in the U.S. have engaged in fuel hedging activities, such as buying jet fuel futures contracts. However, none have followed Delta's example and purchased a refinery. In fact, according to Platts, competitors like American and merger partner US Airways have stopped hedging on jet fuel while United and Southwest have cut their hedging activity significantly.  With a fleet of more than 700 aircraft, consisting mainly of older and less fuel-efficient planes, Delta benefits from the acquisition for obvious reasons. Delta's big competitors, United Airlines and American Airlines, won't reap the same savings.  But they'll still save a lot. Bhaskara estimates that it could run into the hundreds of millions of dollars annually. The refinery hasn't been a consistent moneymaker for the Delta. According to Philly.com, the facility reported losses amounting to $116 million in 2013. However, after a series of upgrades, the airline expects to make a "modest" profit in 2014.  FREE AppDownload
French Finance Minister Michel Sapin has warned the government won't be able to meet its goal of $21 billion in savings because inflation is too weak. Consumer price increases excluding tobacco in France have slowed to 0.4%. Overall Euro zone inflation recently fell to 0.3%. "The inflation figures in the Euro zone have created a shock," Sapin told AFP in an interview, an expanded version of which was made available to Business Insider. "We need a new discourse among political and economic actors. We must immediately take this into account as decisions get made."  The normal policy levers used to fix growth have broken down, Sapin said. "The textbook is quite flexible in cases of recession or weak growth, but now we've discovered another matter that is just as destabilizing for budgets as weak growth, which is weak inflation," he said. The government had been seeking to defer 1.5 billion Euros in spending on an assumption of 1.5% inflation, mostly through benefit freezes. Now, Sapin said, those reserve outlays are likely to be reevaluated. "Adding to deferred spending doesn't seem well suited to the situation," he said. The French government recently collapsed after former economic minister Arnaud Montebourg criticized President Francois Hollande for spending aggressively enough to revive demand. Sapin will present his budget to Prime Minister Manuel Valls in three weeks. FREE AppDownload
© AFP Alexander KhudoteplyA Ukrainian fighter from the Azov Battalion walks past a checkpoint on the outskirts of Mariupol on September 2, 2014Kiev (AFP) - The International Monetary Fund vowed on Tuesday to stand by Ukraine despite the growing likelihood that a worsening pro-Russian uprising would cripple the economy so badly that its current $17.1-billion (13.0-billion-euro) rescue will prove too small. The global lender said it was releasing the second $1.39-billion tranche of its lifeline despite "major uncertainties" and on the assumption that the ex-Soviet country's Western allies would be ready to pitch in with extra assistance if asked. "We are assuming that the conflict will begin to subside in the coming months," the Fund's European Department head Poul Thomsen said in his first review of Kiev's compliance with its reform and recovery programme. "But the balance of risks appear to be tilted to the downside. If this assumption does not hold... the programmes' viability could hinge on larger assistance from Ukraine's international partners." The IMF said its worst-case scenario would see Ukraine requiring an additional $19 billion in funding by the end of 2015. The boost comes as the war-torn country began receiving gas from the European Union via Slovakia on Tuesday, part of a deal brokered by Brussels to reduce Kiev's energy dependence on Russia amid an escalating armed crisis. Russia cut its gas deliveries to Ukraine in June after a pro-Western government took power, saying that Kiev had not be paying its bills on time.  Ukraine won the two-year standby facility from the IMP after a wave of deadly winter protests toppled the Russian-backed administration and saw Moscow pull the plug on aid it had hoped could keep Kiev permanently out of the European Union's reach. The IMF's rescue formed the heart of a $27-billion package that Ukraine's foreign allies vowed to deliver should the new leaders adopt the deeply unpopular but long-overdue measures to rein in outsized state spending and stamp out communist-era corruption and red tape. But Ukraine's problems -- big enough to see the economy slip into recession in mid-2012 -- have only mounted from persistent tensions with Moscow that have cut it off from Russian trade and required massive spending on a bloody battle against the pro-Kremlin uprising. The fighting has ground vital steel mills and coal mines to a halt that had served as Ukraine's economic  engine for more than a century. The nation of 45 million is now facing the prospect of spending the long winter without crucial Russian gas shipments and with unemployment running out of control.   - Eastern industrial collapse - The IMF expects the economy to shrink by 6.5 percent and inflation to reach 19 percent this year due to the Ukrainian hryvnia's 40-percent depreciation against the dollar since January. Analysts attribute the currency collapse to gaping tax revenue shortfalls and the central bank's decision to follow IMF advice and not spend its meagre cash reserves on pricy exchange rate support measures. Moscow's VTB Capital investment bank said the second tranche's release "is set to calm the local foreign exchange market; however, the external position, including the unresolved gas issues, remains rather fragile." The hryvnia has clawed back about five percent of its value since hitting an historic low of 13.6 against the dollar ahead of the Fund's second instalment decision on Thursday. The IMF's Ukrainian economic report card cautioned that this year's growth could decline by a stunning 20 percent in the strife-torn eastern industrial regions of Lugansk and Donetsk. "The economic situation in the east is very serious," the Fund's Ukrainian mission chief Nikolay Gueorguiev said. The IMF said it has agreed to give Kiev some slack by allowing the government to collect a bigger budget deficit than the one initially approved by its board. The "fiscal strategy has been rebalanced allowing for a larger budget deficit this year to accommodate the temporary loss of revenue... and avoid undue economic and social hardship," the IMF said in its review. It further stressed that its programme's success "critically depends on the government's ability to make a decisive break with a past riddled with weak governance, widespread corruption, and abysmal business climate." Ukraine's growth between April and June was 4.7 percent smaller than over the same period in 2013.   FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of New York YIMBYNew York City's skyline is getting a major makeover.The market for high-end penthouses and ultra-luxury apartments in New York City is booming, and developers are once again building expensive new units after a post-recession slump. Nowhere is the rise of development more striking than on 57th Street, where six new luxury high rises are under construction, casting long shadows over Central Park and earning the street the nickname "Billionaires' Row." One57 already stands at 1,005 feet, making it New York's new tallest residential tower. Soon, that title will be surpassed by 432 Park, which will top out at 1,396 feet, and then Nordstrom Tower, which will reportedly rise 1,775 feet in the air when it's completed in several years. And that's just a sampling of the building spree on 57th Street. Michael Gross, author of of "House of Outrageous Fortune" and "740 Park: The Story of the World's Richest Apartment Building," told Business Insider that these shiny new skyscrapers are “bizarre throwbacks" and "effectively hotels for foreign money.” "I suspect they will be a 'flash in the pan,'" Gross said. "The motivation to build them doesn't seem to be to build homes for New Yorkers, but to attract investment capital without regard to what sort of homes they will be." Indeed, many of the new units will be bought as investments, rented out, and flipped for a profit. But whether the glossy highrises of "Billionaires' Row" are a passing fad or mainstay for New York's elite, they are quickly changing the face of the city.
REUTERS/Petar KujundzicA view outside the China Unicom office building in BeijingFor investors in China equities, there have traditionally been two ways of approaching the market: through expensive growth stocks, or risky contrarian plays. Now, thanks to China’s reforms, there’s a third way which may offer a better balance of risk and return. Despite the headlines about slower growth, credit tightening and the potential for corporate defaults in China, the country’s medium- and long-term prospects continue to interest investors. One reason for this is that opportunities to gain access to Chinese equities are increasing—helped, for example, by the government’s allocation of licenses and quotas under the Renminbi Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor program, and the impending launch of the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect program. Moving Beyond High-Growth Stocks  The range of strategic approaches open to investors is broadening too, enabled by changes in the economic and financial environment. Traditionally, investors in China have focused on either growth or contrarian plays, or a combination of the two. Even now, it’s possible to find stocks in China that offer exciting growth potential—for example, in areas of disruptive progress, such as the media and Internet, or in niche sectors that will continue to benefit from economic development and demographic change, such as the environment and healthcare. The downside is that these stocks typically trade at very high multiples and can be hard to find. Governance can be an issue, too: think of accounting problems in the past at some US-listed Chinese companies. The contrarian play involves buying very cheap stocks which are high-risk but—if all goes well, and the companies not only survive but prosper—may pay off handsomely. Such risks are not for everyone. Focus on State-Owned Enterprises Gavekal Dragonomics/AllianceBernsteinNow—thanks to reforms introduced since the government of President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang came to power last year—a third approach to investing in China is possible. It may not promise the dazzling returns some hope to achieve from China’s growth stocks, but it may be a less risky proposition than those contrarian plays. It’s a result of the government’s plan to improve the profitability of state-owned enterprises (SOEs). The plan includes a range of measures, such as better incentives for management, corporate restructuring, spin-offs and mergers—any of which can create opportunities for investors. Historically, investors have been wary of China’s SOEs because their returns on assets are inferior to those of the private sector, and the gap between the two has been widening in recent years (Display). We believe that the government’s reforms could lead to a narrowing of that gap, suggesting that this could be a good opportunity for investors to position themselves to take advantage of improved profitability among SOEs. Looking Across Sectors Examples can be found across diverse sectors. Sinopec, the country’s largest refiner, is spinning off its service stations into a separate entity. This is a huge business that consists of tens of thousands of outlets and associated retail operations. The restructuring is drawing private capital into the business and focusing management on unlocking its inherent value. APSinopec gas station in Beijing, China. In the telecom sector, the government is driving a plan for the three major companies—China Mobile, China Telecom and China Unicom—to pool their mobile phone tower assets. The move will lead to the companies sharing costs, and is designed to help improve their profitability. The assets will eventually be housed in a stand-alone entity. Investors need to bear in mind that the government’s dominance of SOE share registers leaves private shareholders with little control over important matters such as the appointment of boards and key managers. On the plus side, the lines of publicly available stock in SOEs are typically large and liquid; they trade at modest multiples compared with growth stocks and are less risky than contrarian China plays. The views expressed herein do not constitute research, investment advice or trade recommendations and do not necessarily represent the views of all AllianceBernstein portfolio managers. This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
ingret9/flickrShortly before sunrise on Tuesday, Morgan Capezzera reclined on the roulette table at the Revel Casino in her bikini and snapped a selfie before the Atlantic City gambling hall shut its doors for good. "I love Revel," said Capezzera, 30, of Toms River, New Jersey, who spent most of the day at the casino. "I lost, but I don't care." She was one of few fans who came out for the closing night of a two-year-old casino once heralded by Governor Chris Christie as a new model for the down-on-its-luck New Jersey shore gambling hub. The $2.4 billion project this year went into bankruptcy for the second time in its short history and is one of four Atlantic City casinos to announce that it would shut its doors this year, taking a heavy toll on the budget in a city where the property tax base is expected to fall to $10 billion by 2015, less than half its 2010 level. Revel closed with a whimper during the Labor Day holiday weekend, its final gasps coming from the bar, where staff sold opened bottles of liquor to the last customers for $5. Its 57-story hotel was dark on Monday, and by the evening waiters at some of the independently owned restaurants that had stayed open greeted diners by reciting the list of dishes that were no longer available. Management had advertised a 5 a.m. closing time intended to give gamblers time to cash out before the doors closed an hour later. But with just a dozen people, the roulette and blackjack tables remained open till almost 6 a.m. Meanwhile, state troopers patrolled the floor to guard against vandalism, which had marred the closing of the Atlantic Club earlier this year. "I thought everyone and their mother would be here," said Sara Pully, 29, of Bergenfield, New Jersey. "It's the last night." AP Images Laureen Dunn, 60, a blackjack and roulette dealer, said many of the casino's employees took advantage of unused vacation time rather than work the final night. She chose to work a shift that ended at 3 a.m. "I wanted to earn income until the last minute," Dunn said. "What can you do with six months' unemployment?" Revel, which employed 3,100 at its peak, was the third Atlantic City casino to close this year and did so after parent company Revel AC Inc, based in Atlantic City, failed to find a buyer in its second bankruptcy. Its nearest neighbor, the Showboat, closed on Sunday. A fourth casino, the Trump Plaza, is scheduled to close Sept. 16. The downturn in Atlantic City has been driven, in part, by competition from casinos in nearby states including New York, Pennsylvania, and Connecticut. Gaming revenue for Atlantic City, which once held a lucrative East Coast gambling monopoly, has dropped to $2.8 billion from its 2006 peak of $5.2 billion, according to state gaming regulators. REUTERS/Tom Mihalek The Revel project ran into trouble soon after construction began. Initial backer Morgan Stanley walked away in 2010 mid-construction, taking a $1.2 billion loss, and the casino opened two years behind its original schedule. Early plans to build two hotel towers, each with 1,900 rooms, were scrapped in favor of one 1,400-room hotel. Public spaces, however, were scaled to a 3,800-room property, and the gaming floors often felt empty. Revel AC has said it lost roughly $2 million per week, even at the peak of the busy summer season. Revel's designers hoped to lure a younger crowd with Las Vegas-style elan by offering hip nightclubs, rooftop gardens, swimming pools, and high-end restaurants. The strategy emphasized entertainment over gaming, and it remained on display to the end. Thousands of revelers spent Monday partying at the hotel's Revel HQ Beach Club as DJ's played thumping dance music that could be heard for blocks. But as the party ended, most revelers headed back to their cars, on a path that did not even take them to the same floor as Revel's casino.  (Editing by Scott Malone and Douglas Royalty) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA bank clerk places Swiss franc banknotes of several values to be sorted in a money counter in a Bank in ZurichBERNE (Reuters) - Switzerland is not doing enough to rid itself of ill-gotten funds, despite loosening its banking secrecy, and should now  beef up its law against money laundering, an global corruption watchdog said on Tuesday. Cobus de Swardt, head of the Berlin-based group Transparency International, said Berne needed to prevent ill-gotten funds from being hidden or laundered, for example through cash purchases of luxury goods or property. In May, Switzerland said it would do away with banking secrecy by joining the growing ranks of countries agreeing to share tax information. But it has been less aggressive about criminally gained funds. While it has a law against money laundering, no substantial checks are required on cash purchases at the many luxury shops, art dealers and jewelers that dot the high streets of cities such as Geneva and Zurich. "I think the world's perception on issues of fighting corruption is one where your efforts in last years in dealing with issues like banking secrecy have not found the resonance which probably you would have hoped they would find," de Swardt told journalists in the Swiss capital. De Swardt was speaking at a news conference to launch a Transparency International campaign to persuade governments to halt the flow of illicit money gained through abuse of power, bribery and secret deals. Switzerland is the world's largest offshore cash center with roughly 2 trillion Swiss francs ($2.17 trillion) in assets. It was forced to make concessions on secrecy laws due to a global tax crackdown. The government has submitted a bill in parliament to adopt the guidelines of the intergovernmental Financial Action Task Force to fight money laundering, but it faced stiff opposition in the lower house. The upper house backed it on first reading and will hold a second debate on it next week. In addition to tighter money laundering laws, de Swardt said Switzerland should also require that the names of shares owners are public. These "beneficial owners" can now hide behind legal entitles when listed on shares registers. He urged Switzerland to tackle these issues now and not wait until international pressure builds up, as the country did on sharing tax data. "If you move on banking secrecy and move on beneficial owners, it will become for a short-term period a potential competitive advantage," de Swardt said. "If I'm a Swiss business person I would say, bring it on."  (Reporting By Katharina Bart; Editing by Tom Heneghan) FREE AppDownload
Maurizio Pesce/flickrA Model S being assembled at Tesla's Fremont factory.Tesla shares are up  more than 4% in Tuesday morning trading. Earlier, Stifel Nicolaus put a new buy rating on the stock, with a $400 price target. That is nearly 50% higher than its pre-Labor day weekend price of $269.70. The ambitious target comes after a visit Stifel's James Albertine offered a new lens through which we should be viewing Tesla's market opportunity. If you  accept the company as a "slightly bigger than niche" global luxury auto manufacturer, you realize it has practically no rivals when it comes to electric vehicles. "It appears TSLA's primary competition remains reluctant to fully dedicate the resources necessary for developing a suitable Model S/X competitor with 200-300 miles of EV range," he writes. There are about 14 million high-net-worth individuals around the world with $1 million or more of investable wealth (ex-real estate), he says, citing the Capgemini World Wealth Report 2014. If any of them are in the market for an electric vehicle, Tesla is likely to be the first company they turn to thanks to what he says is a clear brand message, differentiated curb appeal, and overseas growth rate. "As it seems even the luxury competitors struggle to compete on a pure-EV basis with TSLA, it seems conceivable TSLA can continue to ramp production/deliveries globally at well north of a 100k units per year rate, excluding Gigafactory output and Model III introduction." Stifel NicolausSince Stifel initiated a "hold" rating on Tesla in Q2 2013, Tesla shares have climbed approximately 75%. Albertine also recently visited Tesla's Fremont factory. "The rate of change vs. our last tour (May 2013) was staggering," he said. Among other things, he found himself impressed with the amount of insourcing Tesla has achieved. There are now 120 robots putting together Model S vehicles on a repurposed ground conveyor system from a Toyota Tacoma production line. In-house production, he argues, helps improve the yield and quality of the factory's output. He now predicts the company can achieve a 1,000 units-per-week production rate by the end of the year, and remains on track to achieving its 2,000 units-per-week target by 2015. They're currently at about 800 units a week, he says. Tesla plans to add a second body assembly line in Spring 2015 to help pump out Model X SUVs, he notes, and the firm has promised the same kind of vertical integration for its lithium ion battery "Gigafactory." The ultimate driver of company's share price, he says, may simply be momentum. "Tesla sentiment is like a freight train, in our view, benefiting from a well-manicured growth story that has caught the eye of a much broader investor base relative to most auto stocks," he says. Tesla shares are up 80% year-to-date in 2014, and more than 850% over the past two years: Yahoo FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick WilkingWarren Buffett, the third-wealthiest person in the world, according to Forbes.When Warren Buffett started his investing career, he would read 600, 750, or 1,000 pages a day. Even now, he still spends about 80% of his day reading.  "Look, my job is essentially just corralling more and more and more facts and information, and occasionally seeing whether that leads to some action," he once said in an interview.  "We don't read other people's opinions," he says. "We want to get the facts, and then think." To help you get into the mind of the billionaire investor, we've rounded up his book recommendations over 20 years of interviews and shareholder letters.  It was the one of the luckiest moments of his life, he said, because it gave him the intellectual framework for investing.&nbsp; "To invest successfully over a lifetime does not require a stratospheric IQ, unusual business insights, or inside information," Buffett said. "What's needed is a sound intellectual framework for making decisions and the ability to keep emotions from corroding that framework. This book precisely and clearly prescribes the proper framework. You must provide the emotional discipline." The book's core insight: If your analysis is thorough enough, you can figure out the value of a company &mdash; and if the market knows the same.&nbsp; Buffett has said that Graham was the second-most influential figure in his life, after only his father.&nbsp; "Ben was this incredible teacher; I mean he was a natural," he said.&nbsp; "I am an eager reader of whatever Phil has to say, and I recommend him to you," Buffett said.&nbsp; In "Common Stocks and Uncommon Profits," Fisher emphasizes that fixating on financial statements isn't enough &mdash; you also need to evaluate a company's management. Lots of books have been written about how to manage an organization through tough times. Almost none are firsthand accounts of steering a wing of government through economic catastrophe.&nbsp; "This wasn't just a little problem on the fringes of the U.S. mortgage market," Geithner writes. "I had a sick feeling in my stomach. I knew what financial crises felt like, and they felt like this."&nbsp; &nbsp; In this collection, he keeps it very real &mdash; in his signature folksy-intellectual fashion.&nbsp; "What could be more advantageous in an intellectual contest &mdash; whether it be chess, bridge, or stock selection &mdash;than to have opponents who have been taught that thinking is a waste of energy?" he asks.&nbsp; &nbsp; In commenting on the book, Bloomberg Businessweek wrote that "Welch has had such an impact on modern business that a tour of his personal history offers all managers valuable lessons." Buffett's advice: "Get a copy!"&nbsp; Berkshire Hathaway plays a major role in the book. One chapter is on director Tom Murphy, who Buffett says is "overall the best business manager I&rsquo;ve ever&nbsp;met."&nbsp; The book &mdash; which finds patterns of success from execs at The Washington Post,&nbsp;Ralston Purina, and others &mdash; has been praised as "one of the most important business books in America" by Forbes.&nbsp;&nbsp; In it, Bogle &mdash; creator of the index fund and founder of the Vanguard Group, now managing&nbsp;$2 trillion in assets &mdash; argues that long-term investing has been crowded out by short-term speculation.&nbsp; But the book isn't all argument. It finishes with practical tips, like:&nbsp; 1. Remember reversion to the mean.&nbsp;What's hot today isn't likely to be hot tomorrow. The stock market reverts to fundamental returns over the long run. Don't follow the herd. 2. Time is your friend, impulse is your enemy.&nbsp;Take advantage of compound interest and don't be captivated by the siren song of the market. That only seduces you into buying after stocks have soared and selling after they plunge. To reply, Buffett sent the Microsoft founder his personal copy of "Business Adventures," a collection of New Yorker stories by John Brooks.&nbsp; Gates says that the book serves as a reminder that the principles for building a winning business stay constant. He writes:&nbsp; For one thing, there's an essential human factor in every business endeavor. It doesn't matter if you have a perfect product, production plan and marketing pitch; you'll still need the right people to lead and implement those plans. The book has become a media darling as of late; Slate wrote that it's "catnip for billionaires."&nbsp;&nbsp; FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsA Staples storefront.Credit Suisse thinks Office Depot and Staples should merge. In a note to clients on Tuesday, Gary Balter at Credit Suisse said a merger between Staples and Office Depot, "makes significant financial and operational sense."  In morning trade on Tuesday, shares of both companies were up more than 6%.  In November 2013, Office Depot completed its merger with Office Max, and Balter writes that the FTC's wording in approving this deal implies that a Staples-Office Depot merger would be deemed acceptable.  Balter also argues that recent results from both companies highlight the need for further consolidation in the office supplies space, and Balter thinks Staples' cash flow makes this deal, "particularly attractive for private equity funds looking for a LBO candidate or other activist investors that can shake up the status quo and capitalize on the potential inherent in a merger with ODP." In the second quarter, Staples reported revenue that fell 1.8% to $5.2 billion on net income that fell to $75 million from $103 million, while Office Depot reported an operating loss of $185 million in the quarter.  Balter notes that many argued for an Office Depot-Office Max merger for years as the combined market caps of those companies fell 90% from 2007 to 2012 until an activist investor took a stake in Office Depot and began pressing for a merger.  The combined market caps of those companies have double since then, and Balter believes operating profit of a combined Staples-Office Depot company could double by 2017.  FREE AppDownload
www.andersentax.comArthur Andersen is back. Almost. WTAS, a San Francisco-based tax firm formed by former employees of Arthur Andersen, has purchased the rights to the Arthur Andersen name and renamed itself Andersen Tax. The Wall Street Journal reported that terms of the deal were not disclosed. Arthur Andersen, formerly one of the "Big Five" accounting firms — which is now a "Big Four" including Deloitte &amp; Touche, KPMG, PricewaterhouseCoopers, and Ernst &amp; Young — was Enron's auditor, and went bust after it was convicted of destroying documents as the government began investigating Enron's accounting. In a letter on Andersen's website, Andersen Tax CEO Mark Vorsatz said: Arthur Andersen, at its best, was a firm that was founded and managed on the basis of Quality and Objectivity by world-class people with world-class training. Arthur Andersen was the standard bearer for the accounting industry and served as the benchmark against which all other firms were measured. We recognize that embracing our new name is a bold move. However, we plan to reclaim a cherished legacy of integrity and independence that have served as the foundation of both WTAS and Arthur Andersen. It's been nearly 13 years since Enron went out of business, and earlier this year former CEO Jeff Skilling struck a deal with prosecutors that could cut his prison term by 10 years.  Vorsatz told The Wall Street Journal that the Enron affair, "was not representative of the rest of the firm," but added that, "I'm not going to defend the indefensible." (via WSJ) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersOil is burned off the surface of the water near the source of the Deepwater Horizon spill in the Gulf of Mexico off the coast of LouisianaHalliburton Co. said it reached a $1.1 billion settlement for a majority of claims against the company for its role in the BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010. The settlement, which includes legal fees, is subject to approval by the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana. The amount, to be paid in three installments over the next two years, will be put into a trust until all appeals are resolved, the company said. Halliburton, North America's top oilfield services provider, had set aside $1.3 billion for costs related to the incident. The Macondo accident spilled 4.9 million barrels of oil into the sea, according to the U.S. government, and killed 11 workers. Rig contractor Transocean Ltd, which employed nine of the workers killed, agreed to pay $1.4 billion in settlement last year, while BP has paid about $28 billion so far. Halliburton provided cementing services for BP at the Macondo drilling operation, including the placement of "centralizers" that help stabilize the well bore during cementing. Halliburton had earlier blamed BP's decision to use only six centralizers - to save "time and money" - for the blowout. Halliburton's shares were up slightly at $67.92 in morning trade on the New York Stock Exchange.   (Reporting by Swetha Gopinath in Bangalore; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty and Kirti Pandey) FREE AppDownload
APISM's manufacturing index is at its highest level since March 2011. The Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing report for August came in at 59.0, up from 57.1 in July.  Expectations were for the reading to come in at 57.0, down from 57.1 in July.  The report's prices paid index fell slightly against July, to 58.0 from 59.5, while the new orders index rose to 66.7 from 63.4 in July.  Additionally, the new orders index came in at its highest level since April 2004. Via ISM, here's a snapshot of what the survey's respondents are saying. ISM Here's the full table from ISM showing the report's components. ISM FREE AppDownload
Megan Willett/Business InsiderConstruction spending jumped by 1.8% in July, beating expectations for a 1.0% rebound. Making things even better, spending in June fell by just 0.9%, which compares to an earlier estimate of a 1.8% decline. Both private and public construction spending saw grwoth. From the Census: PRIVATE CONSTRUCTIONSpending on private construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $701.7 billion, 1.4 percent (±0.8%) above the revised June estimate of $692.2 billion. Residential construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $358.1 billion in July, 0.7 percent (±1.3%)* above the revised June estimate of $355.6 billion. Nonresidential construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $343.6 billion in July, 2.1 percent (±0.8%) above the revised June estimate of $336.6 billion. PUBLIC CONSTRUCTIONIn July, the estimated seasonally adjusted annual rate of public construction spending was $279.6 billion, 3.0 percent (±3.0%)* above the revised June estimate of $271.5 billion. Educational construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $63.5 billion, 1.6 percent (±4.9%)* above the revised June estimate of $62.5 billion. Highway construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $84.8 billion, 6.9 percent (±7.7%)* above the revised June estimate of $79.3 billion. Here's a breakdown by type of construction. Census FREE AppDownload
Markit Economics' manufacturing survey for August came in at 57.9. That's up from 55.8 in July, and the highest level since April 2010. Consensus was for a reading of 58.0. The "flash" reading from earlier in August was also 58.0.  Manufacturing payrolls increased at the steepest pace since March 2013, and export sales climbed at the fastest rate in three years.  "...The manufacturing sector continues to have a positive impact on overall labor market conditions," Markit senior economist Tim Moore said. "Improving domestic economic fundamentals remain the key engine of growth. However, there were finally signs of external demand gaining traction in August, despite weakness across the euro area." Here's the new chart: Markit FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesAngelo Mozilo Former Countrywide CEO Angelo Mozilo spoke to Bloomberg's Max Abelson on the phone for 30 minutes, and he doesn't sound sorry for his role in the financial crisis. Actually, the 75-year-old former Wall Street exec sounds completely tone-deaf. It's been a while since we've heard anything from Mozilo. Countrywide was acquired by Bank of America during the height of the 2008 financial crisis. Since then, Bank of America has paid a ton of fines relating to conduct from the mortgage insurer. Just last month, Bloomberg News reported that the U.S. government plans to bring a civil case against Mozilo related to subprime mortgages at Countrywide. Mozilo, who refers to himself in the third person, told Bloomberg that the firm he co-founded didn't do anything wrong and neither did he.  "No, no, no, we didn’t do anything wrong," he said, adding that a real estate collapse was the root of the crisis. “Countrywide or Mozilo didn’t cause any of that." And if that doesn't dumbfound you, it gets even worse. Mozilo, who is said to have a net-worth of hundreds of millions, doesn't have a job.  "I don’t have a job, so I have to earn some money, and I do it through investments,” he said. Real estate is still the best option, he said. “Tides go in and out. This is just another tide." Here we go again.  Read Abelson's full piece at Bloomberg » FREE AppDownload
College starts today for students across the country. With tuition costs surging, we can't help but ask, "What are they thinking?" In a new note, the New York Fed's Jaison R. Abel and Richard Deitz write that, looked at one way, these young people are making a sound investment as it now takes fewer years than ever for graduates to recoup their investment. While you used to have to work nearly 25 years to earn back what you'd fronted for your degree, only about 10 years on average are now required.   "Despite the challenges facing today’s college graduates, the value of a college degree has remained near its all-time high, while the time required to recoup the costs of the degree has remained near its all-time low," they write.  However, that 10-year time-frame has not really budged since the late '90s. New York Fed Similarly, the value of a college degree has not increased since 2000, and has actually been decreasing of late. "We estimate that the value of a college degree fell from about $120,000 in the early 1970s to about $80,000 in the early 1980s, before more than tripling to nearly $300,000 by the late 1990s, where it has remained, more or less, ever since," they write.  New York Fed That value of college has stayed near all-time highs despite rising tuition costs and falling wages for graduates actually has more to do with plummeting wages among high school graduates. In other words, the opportunity cost of not going to school are climbing.  We've written about the debate over the value of a college degree before, and most economists remain adamant that in nearly every scenario, obtaining a college degree (as opposed to merely taking just some college) is worth the investment. But Abel and Deitz recognize that it still remains difficult to argue one way or the other. "...It’s possible that some part of what we estimate as the value of a college degree isn’t driven by the skills an individual acquires while in college: people who earn a college degree may simply differ in their innate skills and abilities from those who don’t obtain a degree," they write. "Maybe some college graduates would have earned higher wages even if they had never gone to college. Separating out these two effects in research studies is extremely difficult." We should keep our eyes on this space as the pair say they have further posts on this subject in the pipe, including one that shows that based on the distribution of wages for college graduates, college actually does not appear to have paid off for a sizable fraction of those who made the investment.  (h/t @boes_) FREE AppDownload
REUTERSA Venezuelan opposition protester prepares to throw a Molotov cocktail during riots in Caracas, Venezuela, on March 2, 2004.It's hard to get by when you don't have a job and the price of goods is rising. That maxim is behind the dramatically named "Misery Index," which adds together a country's unemployment and inflation rates. The higher the number, the more "miserable" your country is. The index was created by economist Arthur Okun, and it was an extremely popular measurement during the Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan presidencies. There have been some criticisms of the misery index. Extensive studies have shown that unemployment influences happiness (or rather, unhappiness) significantly more than inflation. Still, few would argue that both unemployment and inflation are bad when they are very high. Bloomberg's Alex Tanzi compiled a list of the "most miserable countries" in the world according to this index. We highlight the 21 countries that scored 10 or higher. Some famously miserable countries are noticeably absent from this list. Bloomberg left them off because either the unemployment rate or inflation rate (or both) were absent or dated. But we thought we'd share them with you anyway. FREE AppDownload
AP Apple analyst Gene Munster of Piper Jaffray is raising his price target to $120, up from $105.  Apple is currently at ~$103.2o, which is an all-time high. Though, Apple's market cap is ~$613 billion, which is far behind it's all-time market cap value of $665 billion. (This discrepancy is thanks to Apple's massive share buyback program.) Munster's note is light on a detailed argument for upping the price target. Munster's price boost basically comes down to the following, "We remain buyers of Apple and are raising our price target to $120 (from $105) ahead of the upcoming launch of new products and services that will likely give investors optimism that the platform theme is expanding (e.g., iWatch, HomeKit, HealthKit, payments)." More interestingly, Munster warns that Apple's opening weekend iPhone 6 sales could be a disappointment.  "In the near term, we caution that there will likely be noise in the opening weekend iPhone 6 sales numbers given difficult comps from last year's 5C channel fill," says Munster.  When Apple announced opening weekend iPhone sales of 9 million units last year, it included all the new iPhone 5C models in the announcement, says Munster. Munster estimates Apple only sold 5.4 million iPhone 5S models during opening weekend last year.  Last year, Apple started selling the iPhone 5S, and the plastic iPhone 5C, which replaced the iPhone 5 in the iPhone line up, at the same time. Munster says Apple took all the iPhone 5 models out of stores and replaced them with the iPhone 5C. That led to "channel fill" of over 3 million iPhone units. Therefore, Apple is at risk of announcing a massive drop in opening weekend iPhone sales this year.  Piper Jaffray Munster estimates Apple could sell 6.5 million iPhone 6 units during the opening weekend. That would represent 20% growth on a year-over-year basis against the iPhone 5S. However, against the 9 million number Apple announced last year, it will be a 28% drop in year-over-year numbers, which will look ghastly.  It's possible Apple chooses not to announce anything. That, too, would be problematic. People would start assuming the worst.  Munster thinks this "may prove to be a speed bump to shares," but says, "we expect additional product launches and the platform theme to move shares higher through year-end." FREE AppDownload
Martin HajekiPhone 6.iPhone 6 is coming, and the economic impact is going to be huge. In a note to clients, Bank of America Merrill Lynch economists Ting Lu and Marcella Chow write that iPhone 6 should boost China's export growth by 1% per month for the rest of 2014. iPhone 6 sales are also expected to boost Taiwan's export growth 2% per month from August through October, and 1% from November through January.  Lu and Chow write: "We found that the upcoming iPhone 6’s release could add about 1% per month to China export growth for the rest of 2014, while Taiwan’s export growth could be boosted by around 2% per month during August-October and 1% per month in November 2014 to January 2015. These numbers are not that small. Export growth of China and Taiwan was only 4.9% and 4.4% yoy in 2Q14 respectively, so a boost of 1 to 2 percentage points to headline export growth is no small matter, especially for the currency market which closely tracks export growth numbers." iPhone sales should also account for 0.4% of GDP Taiwan's GDP growth in 2014, a larger impact than in the past, as each iPhone 6 is expected to contain about $25 worth of inputs from Taiwan manufacturers.  This call is based on forecasts that 100 million iPhones will be sold in the second half of this year, including a record 63 million in the fourth quarter. Here's a table of iPhone sales expectations through next year. Apple is expected to announce iPhone 6 next week. Bank of America Merrill Lynch FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stefano RellandiniAn Etihad flight attendant (L) poses with an Alitalia flight attendant before a media conference in Rome.BRUSSELS (Reuters) - Italian airline Alitalia and Etihad Airways are expected to seek European Union antitrust approval for their deal this month and win clearance by the end of the year after minor concessions, a person familiar with the matter said on Tuesday. Abu Dhabi-based Etihad clinched a deal last month to buy 49 percent of lossmaking Alitalia for 1.76 billion euros ($2.31 billion), giving it access to Europe's fourth-largest travel market and 25 million passengers. "The deal is expected to be notified to the European Commission this month. It should be conditional phase 1 clearance," said the person who declined to be named because of the sensitivity of the matter. A phase 1 review by the EU antitrust authority lasts 25 working days, which is extended by 10 additional working days if companies offer concessions to allay competition concerns. ($1 = 0.7624 Euros)   (Reporting by Foo Yun Chee; Editing by Martin Santa) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Christinne MuschiFlight attendants walk up to view the Bombardier CSeries aircraft after its first test flight in Mirabel, Quebec.TORONTO (Reuters) - Goldman Sachs cut its price target on Bombardier Inc &lt;bbdb.to&gt;&lt;bdrbf.pk&gt; and reiterated a "sell" rating on shares of the train and plane maker on Tuesday, warning it expected the CSeries aircraft's entry into service to be delayed again. Goldman's price cut came just days after a Swedish carrier backed out as the first customer to start commercial flights with its new CSeries jet. Malmo Aviation, owned by Sweden's Braathens Aviation, was slated to be the first CSeries customer to take delivery of the new jet in the second half of 2015, but the airline said on Friday that will no longer be the case. It cited worries about further delays after a May engine failure grounded the jets. "We believe the CSeries will negatively impact Bombardier's financial results and create negative catalysts for the next several years," Goldman analyst Noah Poponak said in a note to clients. Poponak reiterated the "sell" rating and trimmed his price target to C$3 from C$3.20. The CSeries aircraft, which will compete with Boeing Co's &lt;ba.n&gt; 737 MAX as well as the Airbus &lt;air.pa&gt; A320neo, has been grounded for more than three months. Bombardier, following an initial test flight in September 2013, had earmarked roughly two years for testing after a delay in the development process. Poponak said the aircraft has completed just 330 hours of flight testing since its first flight, out of a planned 2,400 total hours, meaning Bombardier has achieved less than 15 percent of planned flight test hours, while using nearly half of the time it had allotted toward testing. REUTERS/Christinne MuschiBombardier employees stand around the CSeries aircraft prior to its first test flight in Mirabel, Quebec.He contended if flight tests resumed in September, Bombardier would need to complete an average of about 160 test flight hours per month to achieve the currently planned second half of 2015 entry into service. "We see that as very unlikely given the pace achieved before grounding, momentum (not just time) lost during grounding, and the high risk of new problems occurring other than this engine incident," said Poponak. Shares in Bombardier closed more than 3 percent lower at C$3.66 on Friday on the Toronto Stock Exchange after the Swedish carrier said it was backing out.   (Reporting by Euan Rocha; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe) FREE AppDownload
If you own a piece of Apple tech there's a good chance you've visited one of their retail locations. Every detail of each Apple store has been designed and planned out to influence the customer into spending more money as they shop and browse. Here's how it works. Layouts courtesy of ifoapplestore.com. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Twitter   
REUTERS/Paul HannaJonesTrading's Dave Lutz has a roundup of what traders are buzzing about after the long weekend. Good Morning! Despite Geopolitical unrest (Ukraine, Pakistan, Gaza, ISIS, Iraq) S&amp;P Futures are resting at fresh all-time highs, up 20bp this AM —but watch Smallcaps, Russell Minis are jumping nearly 50bp early — we will be On the lookout for a “Good Harbor” ETF rebalance today — Late August they moved to an overall allocation of 25% large cap equities and 75% treasuries — so sounds like they will chase smallcaps this month. The DAX is climbing 80bp, but volumes are not awakening to the end of summer quite yet, with most EU markets trading 15% light to last week’s meager tally Over in Asia, Nikkei jumped to a 7M high after wages in July rose faster than expected; China jumped 1.3% as IPO selling subsides; India continues its surge (up 27% ytd). Miners are jumping as Aussie dumps its mining Tax; and watch Casino Names as Macau casino revenue was worse than analysts estimated in August, falling a third straight month as China’s anti-graft campaign curbed gambling by VIPs. We have selling of Global Sovs, with U.S. and German 10YY up 4bp, but German 2’s remain negative, while French 2’s went negative yesterday. We have the Dollar jumping, nearing 6Y highs against the Yen, as Sterling is under some pressure as polls show Scottish Independence gaining rapid momentum and Euro nears 1Y lows and nears the “Floor” against the Swiss Franc. We have Oil weaker on multiple headwinds (Global Manufacturing light, the threat of more Russian Sanctions materialize, and OPEC is increasing production) — Gold hits 1month lows as Metal investors’ chase Palladium to a 13Y high and Weak Manufacturing data from EU has doves chirping into ECB this week. Very quiet on the catalyst calendar today -—Manufacturing PMI at 8:30 — there is NO POMO. We get busy the rest of the week with decisions from ECB, BOJ, BOE and Canada / US Employment Report / Federal Reserve Beige Book / Chain Store Sales Trends for August. FREE AppDownload
Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianSamsung’s Gear Live and LG’s G Watch Android Wear smartwatches were tested for two months. Google’s software for smartwatches, Android Wear, will start appearing on a range of devices from various manufacturers this autumn, and this year’s IFA electronics trade show, which starts on Wednesday, is expected to be packed with rival models. Wear is a new platform, an overhaul of Google’s Android smartwatch software, which simplifies the user experience by cutting out all but the essential features. The LG G Watch and Samsung Gear Live were the first Android Wear smartwatches, but they are expected to be joined by models from Sony, Asus, HTC, Motorola, as well as more from Samsung and LG soon. For users, the pertinent question is whether Android Wear is worth investing in, and ditching a perfectly adequate watch for. To answer that question, I was joined by Tom Grinsted, the Guardian’s group product manager for mobile and devices, and Subhajit Banerjee, the Guardian’s mobile editor – and we all tested Android Wear watches for two months to find out. Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianGoogle’s first two smartwatches show promise but are expensive. Grinsted wore the Samsung Gear Live. He didn’t find shifting notifications from a phone to his wrist intrusive. I’ve been genuinely surprised by how quickly the Samsung Gear Live I’ve been wearing for the past couple of months has replaced the many, many times I get my phone out for tiny interactions. That was the premise of Android Wear, but after using it I’ve really felt like a wearable was offering me something useful for the first time – a quicker, less intrusive and less arduous way to manage the micro-interactions that make up much of my digital life. It’s become a habit, and very quickly. That’s not to say it’s perfect. The Gear Live lasts for two days of reasonably heavy use but it’s another gadget inevitably leading to charging anxiety (if that’s a thing). For small actions it’s great but as soon as I want to do anything more I reach for my phone because a screen on your wrist is too small for anything heavy. But I also reach for the phone because there are some things you simply can’t do on a watch. It’s considered odd to talk to non-phone technology in public. Android Wear’s voice recognition is really very good: easily accurate enough to reply quickly to text messages or ask for directions. But using it means that you’re talking to your wrist in public. It’s less stare-inducing than wearing Google Glass but not by much. Am I still wearing Wear after two months? Yes. I really like not getting my phone out all the time. It makes my technology quicker and less obvious in public. Unless I start talking to it … I don’t think we’re all quite ready for that. Yet.” Jeff Chiu/APSamsung Gear Live Banerjee also wore the Gear Live but struggled with the battery life. For me, it’s really convenient to be able to look at all the notifications and act only on those that need urgent attention, especially the work related stuff (meeting reminders, breaking news alerts, Google chats, Twitter interactions, etc). The Gear Live also looks like a watch, and the ability to change clock faces is great – a new watch everyday. Having the ability to ask your watch to look up stuff and measure your heart rate? Who wouldn’t want that. But it’s not perfect. Having to remember to charge a watch as well as a phone each night is a drag. I get 36 hours of out of the Gear Live before needing to charge it, and I would prefer to charge it via microUSB without the charging attachment. I also wish it had connectivity of its own, and wasn’t simply a companion device. App selection is weak – I want a Spotify app to control what I’m listening to, for instance. Having notifications on my wrist means that if I want a break from alerts, taking off the watch is much easier and practical than ditching the phone or going through loads of app settings. Overall, it still feels like a product in development offering a glimpse into the potentials of wearables, very much like the early days of the mobile phone. But it is functional enough for me to continue to wear for over two months instead of a watch.” Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianLG G WatchIn my view, having worn the LG G Watch for just under two months there are two things I’ve noticed. The first is that Android Wear watches with their screens on all the time are the best for telling the time. Other smartwatches that rely on the wrist’s movement to light the screen are great in theory, but fail in practice. The second is that having notifications vibrate and display on the wrist has saved me hours. I don’t need to constantly get my phone out of my pocket, unlock it, swipe down on the notification shade then then dismiss it every time it vibrates. Now I turn off all phone alerts and rely on the watch, swiping them away when I don’t care, which is most of the time, or tapping through them and pulling them up on the phone when something important arrives. There is something very satisfying about junking an email on my wrist and when I don’t want to be notified I can just mute the watch or turn it off. The G Watch lasted about two days on a charge, had minimal impact on my smartphone’s battery life and was comfortable to wear, easily fitting under a shirt cuff. It was the best smartwatch I’ve used and it proved to me that Android Wear was something worth having; it added to my smartphone experience rather than just being another gimmick. Google should be applauded for taking a less-is-more approach to the smartwatch, thinking about what people actually want to do with a screen on the wrist. I’d still like a keyboard and more apps, but Wear works as it is now and is quickly becoming something I don’t want to live without. Wear has yet to appeal to the mass market, to prove that having notifications on the wrist instead of the smartphone (or not at all) is worth spending £150-200 on. For those not inundated with email, messages and social media there is still little in the way of a convincing use case – but like the first iPad, it’s something that you find uses for once you have it. It will be exciting to see how smartwatches develop, with more phone-independent functionality expected, as well as what the round watches from LG and Motorola look like at IFA. • LG’s G Watch R: the smartwatch that looks like a watch • Google smartwatches review: LG G Watch, Samsung Gear Live and Android Wear This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
AP Late Monday night it was reported that former House Majority Leader Eric Cantor would take a job at investment bank Moelis. The news has already prompted the predictable eye-rolling about the "revolving door." And to the Tea Partiers who ousted Cantor in a primary earlier this year, the news that he is going to Wall Street is vindication that he was never a populist like them. But anyway, Moelis has put in a filing with the SEC, detailing his pay package (Via Erik Schatzker). From the filing: Group LP has agreed to pay Mr. Cantor an annual base salary of $400,000. Group LP has also agreed to pay Mr. Cantor an initial cash amount of $400,000 and grant Mr. Cantor $1,000,000 in initial restricted stock units (“RSUs”), based on the average closing price of the Company’s common stock on the five trading days prior to his start date. The initial RSUs will generally vest in equal installments on each of the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of his start date. For calendar year 2015, Group LP has agreed to pay Mr. Cantor minimum incentive compensation of $1,200,000 in cash and $400,000 in incentive RSUs, payable in equal quarterly installments. The incentive RSUs will generally have the same vesting schedule as incentive RSUs granted to Group LP’s other Managing Directors. So he'll have a base salary of $400,000 for this year and next. Add in $1.4 million in signing bonuses this year, and $1.6 million in incentive compensation next year, and Cantor is looking at a cool $3.4 million. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesA sign welcoming President Barack Obama at a Burger King in Orefield, Pennsylvania, near where Obama gave a speech at Lehigh Carbon Community College on Dec. 4, 2009.Burger King may have taken a lot of flack in the past week for a deal that should curb its U.S. tax bill, but in many ways it is consistent with the burger chain’s aggressive tax-reduction strategies in recent years. Some U.S. lawmakers and other critics attacked the company that is the home of the Whopper for deciding to move its tax base to Canada from the U.S. through its proposed purchase of Oakville, Ontario-based coffee and doughnut chain Tim Hortons &lt;THI.TO&gt;. They say it will allow Burger King &lt;BKW.N&gt; to avoid paying some U.S. taxes. That would be nothing new. A Reuters analysis of Burger King’s regulatory filings in the U.S. and overseas, which was also reviewed by accounting experts, shows that it has been making major efforts to reduce its U.S. tax bill for some time. By massaging down U.S. taxable profits while maximizing the profits it reports in low-tax jurisdictions overseas, Burger King is able to operate one of the most tax-efficient businesses in the U.S. fast-food industry. The chain’s effective tax rate of 26 percent over the past three years compares with rates above 31 percent at McDonalds Corp &lt;MCD.N&gt;, Starbucks Corp &lt;SBUX.O&gt;, and Dunkin Brands Group Inc &lt;DNKN.O&gt;. KFC and Pizza Hut owner Yum Brands &lt;YUM.N&gt; did have a similar tax rate to Burger King's, though this reflects the 74% of its revenues that were generated outside the U.S., in markets where tax rates are typically about 25 percent. The Burger King rate is 30 percent lower than the average tax rate it paid in the five years before it was bought in 2010 by private equity group 3G, still the company’s majority shareholder. The accounting experts say the Canadian move will allow Burger King to double down on those efforts as it will open up new tax-saving opportunities for the company. It could, for example, apply the tax structures it currently employs in major markets like Germany and Britain, and which allow the group to operate almost tax free in those places, to its business in the United States, they said. And that could mean Uncle Sam will lose corporate tax income that Burger King would have to pay under its current structure. “I would be surprised if in five years’ time, their tax rate does not come down reasonably dramatically,” said Professor Stephen Shay, from Harvard Law School, who has testified to Congress on corporate taxation. Burger King declined to comment on its current U.S. tax arrangements. But it has said the so-called "inversion" deal to buy Tim Hortons for $11.5 billion and move the headquarters to Canada, was based on Canada being the combined company’s biggest market. It said the deal was about international expansion — particularly of the Tim Hortons brand — and not about tax savings. “We don't expect our tax rate to change materially. As I said this transaction is not really about tax, it's about growth,” Chief Executive Daniel Schwartz said in a call with analysts last week. It would be perfectly legal for Burger King to reduce its U.S. tax bill through the Canadian move. Chas Roy-Chowdhury, head of taxation at the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants in London, said companies all over the world manage their tax bills so they don’t have to pay more tax than necessary. “If the U.S. doesn’t like inversion deals, it should change the law to prevent them. The U.S. has a leaky corporation tax system, which encourages companies to park profits offshore,” he said. Finding ways to report less income to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and more to overseas tax authorities is a particular focus for companies with a headquarters or big operations in the U.S. because of the headline federal corporate tax rate of 35 percent on profits. It is the highest headline corporate tax rate in any major developed country and can be even higher once state and local taxes are added on. There is an incentive for companies to shift U.S.-generated profits overseas, where rates can be very low, the experts say. Burger King generated almost 60 percent of its revenues in the United States between 2011 and 2013, regulatory filings show, but the chain reported just 20 percent of its profits in the country over the period. By contrast, the percentage of their profits that McDonalds, Starbucks Corp, Dunkin Brands, and Yum reported as being earned in the United States was in line with the percentage of their total revenues generated in the country. Those companies all declined to comment. Shay said Burger King’s large debt load could explain why it has more ability to manage its U.S. tax bill than less leveraged peers. Burger King’s low reported U.S. profit translates to domestic profit margins of just an average 4 percent between 2011-2013 — a fifth of the level it recorded in overseas markets in that time. The company declined to say why its U.S. operation enjoyed such low margins over the period — it reported a small U.S. loss in 2012 and a tiny profit for 2011, though the profit was up to a much healthier level by 2013. There could be explanations other than tax-driven moves for the low margins. The U.S. fast-food market is the most competitive in the world, and prices for fast-food offerings are lower than in some other major markets as a result. However, a lot of the burden, including increased labor costs as the minimum wages rises in some states and spending on a refurbishment program for Burger King restaurants, would be borne by the company’s franchisees. Burger King operates very few of its own restaurants. Professor Daniel Shaviro from New York University Law School, who was previously Legislation Attorney at the Joint Congressional Committee on Taxation, said tax planning most likely had a lot to do with the low levels of income reported in the U.S.  The company’s accounts show the low reported U.S. margins are due, at least in part, to how hundreds of millions of dollars in group overheads, such as head office and debt costs are spread across the company each year. Before such costs are applied, profit margins at Burger King’s United States and Canada division (the U.S. produces 91 percent of that unit's revenue) are in line with international operations, at around 39 percent, its filings show. But after these costs are applied, the North American unit ends up with its rock-bottom margins. Most of these costs are taken in the U.S. because it is where cash is borrowed and senior managers and product innovators are based. But tax rules state that such costs should be evenly spread across international divisions, said Kimberly Clausing, a Professor of Economics at Reed University. Reed said the gap between Burger King’s gross and pre-tax profit figures for the United States suggested such group-wide costs are being disproportionately offset against U.S. income. “That’s one way of shifting income abroad ... it’s a common problem,” for the IRS, Reed said. Burger King also operates a tax-efficient operation overseas. By channeling income through Switzerland it has managed to pay an effective tax rate of 15 percent on foreign income over the past three years, company filings and statements show. Experts said this arrangement could become a template for how Burger King, as a foreign company, could shave its U.S. tax rate further. The impact in Germany shows how that could cost the U.S. Treasury. Germany has historically been Burger King’s largest market outside North America, generating over 10 percent of total sales. In 2011 and 2012, the last two years for which figures were available, the German operation had combined sales of $501 million — over half the total for the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region, regulatory filings show. In 10 conference calls with analysts covering the two-year period, transcripts of which Reuters reviewed, then-Chief Financial Officer Schwartz mentioned the German market eight times, and each time spoke of its “strong performance” or “positive” results. EMEA operating profits for 2011 and 2012 totaled $356 million. Yet, Burger King Beteilligung GmbH — the entity that consolidated earnings for the group’s main German operating units — reported losses in 2011 and 2012, totaling over $10 million and recorded a net income tax credit of more than 200,000 euros. Burger King Germany’s taxable income was reduced partly because German stores pay about 5 percent of their turnover to an affiliate in Switzerland, Burger King Europe GmbH, the company told Reuters in 2012. Burger King Europe GmbH owns brand rights for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa — which also allows profits from other places, not just Germany, to be at least partly funneled through Switzerland. Burger King declined to say why the group declared no profits in Germany at the same time as it boasted to investors about the market’s strength, but a spokeswoman said the tax structure in Europe pre-dated New-Yorkbased 3G’s acquisition of the chain in 2010. Almost all of Burger King’s restaurants are now run on a franchise basis rather than directly by the company, and more than 80 percent of the company’s revenue comes from franchise fees and property revenue. At the end of last year, it had 7,384 franchised restaurants in the U.S. and 52 company owned and run — the latter are in the Miami area near the company’s current headquarters so it can test new food offerings and other changes to the way it operates. Under U.S. tax rules, Burger King cannot currently cut its American tax bill by routing franchise fees from its U.S. franchisees via Switzerland. But these rules would not apply to a Canadian company. The company spokeswoman said Burger King had no plans to shift franchisees into contracts with offshore subsidiaries. (Reporting by Tom Bergin; Editing by Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersLocation of "Autobot Optimus Prime" truck from the movie "Transformers: Age of Extinction" is displayed on the Uber App in West Hollywood.A regional German court has issued a temporary injunction against Uber, the U.S.-based online chauffeur service, saying its drivers lacked necessary commercial permits, potentially barring the company from operating in cities across Germany. San Francisco-based Uber, which allows users to summon taxi-like services on their smartphones, has faced regulatory battles and court injunctions from its early days, even as it has expanded rapidly into roughly 150 cities around the world. In its ruling, the Frankfurt Regional Court said the company could no longer offer its Uber and UberPop phone apps to connect drivers with passengers, stating that Uber's network of drivers lacked the necessary commercial licenses to pick up passengers. German law allows drivers to pick up passengers without a commercial license only if the driver charges no more than the operating cost of the trip. Because Uber stands to take a cut of any charges, the court held it liable and issued an injunction against the service. Legal experts said the ruling applied nationwide unless Uber appealed and subsequent decisions limit the scope of the ban. An Uber spokesman said the company was working on a response but had no immediate comment. Founded in 2009 and valued at $18.2 billion after its latest funding round in June, Uber Technologies contends that it is an electronic marketplace that connects drives with customers, not a transportation service itself. Drivers must carry a valid driving license, have necessary local permits, and undergo background checks before they pick up passengers, it says. The suit was brought by Taxi Deutschland, a Frankfurt-based consortium of taxi companies operating in major cities across Germany. Taxi Deutschland offers its own taxi-hire apps for smartphones. The ruling drew praise from other industry groups including Taxi.eu, which said it put Uber drivers on a "level playing field" with the 150,000 drivers it counts in its pan-European network. Even in its home city of San Francisco, Uber has had to overcome legal and regulatory hurdles from city authorities concerned its services sidestep rules governing commercial transport and by taxi companies hoping to keep competition out. Taxi drivers across Europe caused chaos in June by protesting against the service, but it has continued to grow in popularity. Uber last week said that it was experiencing "huge demand" for its services in German cities including Berlin, Frankfurt, and Hamburg and that it planned to expand into Cologne and Stuttgart by the end of this year. In the last four months of this year, Uber had expected to double the number of subscribed users in Germany, after growing fivefold so far in 2014, the company said.   (Additional reporting by Christoph Steitz in Frankfurt and Jan Schwartz in Hamburg; editing by Susan Thomas) FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Enrique Castro-MendivilPolice officers carry packages containing seized cocaine after their arrival at the police airport in Lima on Monday.Good morning, and welcome to September! Here's what you need to know. 1.  Cantor Goes To Wall Street. Former U.S. House Majority Leader Eric Cantor will join investment bank Moelis &amp; Co as vice chairman and managing director, Reuters reports. He will help the firm compete for business and advise clients on deals, The Wall Street Journal says. Founder Ken Moelis is the former president of UBS Investment Bank. Cantor will also be elected to its board. Moelis and Cantor have known each other for more than three years, according to WSJ. Cantor resigned from Congress in August. 2. Dollar General Still Hungry For Family Dollar. The Goodlettsville, Tennessee-based firm announced it was boosting its offer to $80 a share, for a total value of $9.1 billion. According to its release, it was also increasing the number of stores it would be willing to agree to divest to 1,500 if ordered by the Federal Trade Commission, and it agreed to pay a $500 million reverse breakup fee to Family Dollar relating to antitrust matters. All other terms and conditions of the proposal remain unchanged. 3.  S&amp;P 3,000? Here's a fun call to welcome us back from summer vacation: Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker and Ellen Zentner say U.S. equities find themselves surrounded by forces that could push the S&amp;P to 3,000 in the next five years. "Our best guess is that an S&amp;P 500 peak of near 3,000 is possible should the U.S. expansion prove to have five or more years left to it, based on 6% per annum EPS growth through that time frame and a 17x price-to-earnings ratio," Parker writes. Here's BI's Sam Ro: "Like many experts on Wall Street, Parker reminds us that our recent experience of crisis to recovery is not like most of history's boom-and-bust cycles. He also reminds us that bull markets and economic recoveries don't just end because they've gone on for a long time. 'We believe a prolonged period of deleveraging in the U.S., coupled with an uneven global recovery, are just two of the reasons why this could prove to be the longest U.S. expansion — ever,' he writes." 4.  Court Bans Uber In Germany. A regional court has banned the San Francisco-based ride-sharing service, overruling an earlier verdict that had allowed the firm to continue operating, arguing drivers lacked required licenses, The Wall Street Journal reports. In case of violations, the company could be fined up to €250,000 ($328,225) per trip. Uber says it plans to appeal and will not halt operations.  5.  Chinese PMI Comes In Lite. On Sunday, we learned China's official PMI came in at 51.1 versus expectations for 51.2, while HSBC's reading hit 50.2 against 50.3 expected. Although any reading above 50 signals expansion, analysts remain concerned. "We think the economy still faces considerable downside risks to growth in the second half of the year, which warrant further policy easing to ensure a steady growth recovery," HSBC chief economist Hongbin QU said. Dariusz Kowalczyk at Credit Agricole said ahead of the reports that "The data will highlight renewed downward pressure on the Chinese economy emerging in the summer, but it should also prompt more policy easing measures from Beijing and is therefore going to have only a limited negative impact on market sentiment." 6.  Europe PMI Ugly. On Monday we got the following PMI readings for Europe: "France remains a real concern, as does Italy's descent from solid expansion to stagnation. Signs that growth impetus waned in the key industrial engine of Germany, and in Spain and the Netherlands too, is also less than reassuring," Markit Economics economist Rob Dobson said. "The slowdown in industry is likely to add further fuel to the fire for analysts expecting additional monetary or fiscal stimulus to be implemented." 7.  Expectations Tempered For Dovish ECB Thursday. Though many major eurozone economies have now seemingly ground to a halt, expectations that ECB President Mario Draghi will put easing into overdrive are getting dimmed as the region's hawks have begun pushing back. After stating at the K.C. Fed's Jackson Hole conference that there was more room for government spending to help boost demand, Draghi received a phone call from German Chancellor Angela Merkel and German Finance Minister Schaeuble asking for clarification, Reuters reports. The specter of moral hazard has also been raised. "With eurozone bond yields already at record lows, the impact of a QE program could be limited while banishing any pressure on governments to pursue structural economic reforms. 'The ECB council will likely worry about the moral hazard aspects of QE, which could easily tempt governments in Italy, France and elsewhere to go even slower on reforms,' Morgan Stanley analysts said in a research note." 8.  UK Bright Spot. This morning we learned the United Kingdom's construction PMI reading climbed at the fastest pace in seven months in August t0 64.0 from 62.4. "U.K. construction firms saw one of the sharpest rises in output for seven years in August, with increasing workloads driven by an array of factors including surging homebuilding activity, greater infrastructure spending and renewed confidence within the commercial development sector," Markit's Tim Moore said per the FT. "A broad-based upturn in construction demand has created a boom in job creation this summer, as construction companies look to replace capacity lost in the aftermath of the recession." 9.  Data. At 9:45 we get the U.S. PMI manufacturing for August. The prior reading was 58. At 10 a.m. we get ISM manufacturing. Consensus is for a reading of 57 versus 57.1 prior. Also at 10 a.m. we get construction spending for July, which is estimated to have climbed 0.8% after falling 1.8% in June. 10.  Markets. Stocks in Asia ex-Japan were lower as Hyundai sank 2.8% after reporting weaker than expected sales, and Samsung shares fell to a two-year low. European stocks were up, led by Germany's DAX at 0.9%. U.S. futures were higher, with S&amp;P futures up 0.2%. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA price sign at a Dollar General store in Arvada, Colorado (Reuters) - Dollar General Corp &lt;DG.N&gt; raised its bid for Family Dollar Stores Inc &lt;FDO.N&gt; by 2 percent to $80 per share, or $9.1 billion, and warned it may turn hostile and appeal directly to shareholders if the new offer was rejected. Dollar General also said it would pay a break-up fee of $500 million if deal ran foul of competition law, the reason Family Dollar had cited for its rejection the earlier offer and opting instead for an $8.5 billion cash-and-stock bid from Dollar Tree Inc &lt;DLTR.O&gt;. Family Dollar's shares were up almost 1 percent at $80.50 in premarket trading, above Dollar General's cash offer, suggesting some investors held hopes of higher offers. "In the event you refuse to engage with us regarding our revised proposal, we will consider taking our persuasive and superior proposal directly to your shareholders," Dollar General Chief Executive Rick Dreiling said in a letter to Family Dollar's board on Tuesday. Dollar General also said it was willing to sell up to 1,500 stores to clear the antitrust review, up from the 700 it had said earlier. Dollar General said last week it remained committed to acquiring Family Dollar, after the target rejected the previous offer, saying the deal could run foul of competition law. Instead, it opted for a lower bid from Dollar Tree Inc &lt;DLTR.O&gt;. Family Dollar was not immediately available for comment.  (Additional reporting by Abhirup Roy; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGalleon hedge fund founder Raj Rajaratnam departs Manhattan Federal Court after his sentencing in New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. judges are imposing increasingly long prison terms for insider trading, a Reuters analysis shows. The rise is at least partly driven by the bigger profits being earned through the illegal schemes, defense lawyers said. The trend is likely to continue on Monday when former SAC Capital Advisors manager Mathew Martoma is sentenced for what prosecutors have called the most lucrative insider trading case ever brought. In the five-year period ending December 2013, insider trading defendants received an average sentence of 17.3 months, up from 13.1 months during the previous five years, or a 31.8 percent increase, the analysis of 207 insider trading sentences shows. Cases that were reversed on appeal were excluded from the study.  The number of cases has increased, with 57 percent of the sentences imposed in the past five years. The last three years alone have seen two record sentences. In 2011, former billionaire and Galleon Group hedge fund founder Raj Rajaratnam received an 11-year sentence for an insider trading scheme that netted him $63.8 million in illicit profits. That was topped a year later when a New Jersey judge issued a 12-year term on Matthew Kluger, a former corporate lawyer accused of providing illegal tips in a $37 million scheme. The uptick in big cases partly reflects a wave of prosecutions led by Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. Since October 2009, his office has charged 89 people with insider trading and secured 81 convictions. "The judges have seen a rash of these cases, so it may be there is a sense that harsher punishments are needed," said Paul Shechtman, a defense lawyer with Zuckerman Spaeder who has been involved in insider trading cases. Federal judges have discretion to impose any sentence, though they are required to consider advisory guidelines set by the U.S. Sentencing Commission. Within the judiciary, opinions vary, with some judges saying that harsher sentences are important to act as a deterrent and others saying the punishments are greater than the crimes. Bharara himself has pushed for tougher sentences, urging the commission to revise its guidelines to provide for higher penalties for insider traders who use particularly complex or sophisticated means to execute their schemes. "Based on our experience, the nature and scope of insider trading activity has evolved substantially, but the guidelines have not completely kept up," he testified in 2011 before the commission. The commission adopted changes that went into effect in November 2012 that among other things increased sentences for  schemes in which defendants make calculated or repeated efforts to trade on inside information. It is not clear if Bharara's push for tougher sentences or the revised guidelines have had an impact on the length of  sentences. It had already been rising because of the scale of the profits reaped through insider trading, defense lawyers say. On Monday, a federal judge in New York will weigh whether to impose what could be a record insider trading sentence on Martoma, a former fund manager at Steven A. Cohen's SAC. A jury convicted Martoma, 40, in February of engaging in insider trading that enabled SAC to make profits and avoid losses of $275 million. SAC last year pleaded guilty to insider trading and agreed to $1.8 billion in criminal and civil settlements. Ahead of Martoma's sentencing, the court's probation department calculated that under the sentencing guidelines, he could receive almost 20 years, a figure based in large part on the size of the fraud. The sentencing guidelines for insider trading rely heavily on the size of the gain resulting from the crime, allowing for the offense level to be graded higher based on a points system. The higher the points, the higher the suggested sentence. For example, because Martoma recorded a gain of more than $200 million his total points score reaches 36. The guidelines suggest this could mean a sentence of 188-235 months for a first-time offender. Martoma's lawyers in a court filing called the nearly 20-year figure "outrageous." And the probation department ultimately recommended an eight-year sentence. Prosecutors have told U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe they are not opposed to a prison term below the guideline range, though they said that the probation department's recommended sentence is too short. Even an eight-year term would be the sixth longest sentence for insider trading since 2004, the Reuters data shows. The sentencing guidelines' reliance on gains and losses in white-collar cases have prompted defense lawyers and even some judges to press for changes. Critics say the emphasis on profits fails to take into account a defendant's intent and role in the scheme. One critic of the guidelines has been U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan, who in 2012 sentenced former Goldman Sachs Group Inc director Rajat Gupta for insider trading. Under the guidelines, Gupta faced eight years because Galleon Group made $5 million based on a tip prosecutors said Gupta gave to Rajaratnam. Rakoff sentenced him to just two years, saying the guidelines' reliance on the monetary gains "effectively guaranteed that many such sentences would be irrational on their face." Not every judge thinks that way. U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan, who sits in the same court as Rakoff and has issued seven of the 11 longest insider trading sentences during Bharara's tenure, has said he does not share his colleague's sentiments. "I think anyone who engages in this kind of conduct for the amounts of money that are involved here has to be on notice that they're going to be looking at a lengthy jail term," Sullivan said in sentencing a hedge fund manager, Anthony Chiasson, in 2013 to 6-1/2 years in prison. In Martoma's case, prosecutors argued in court filings that if penalties are not steep enough, "a trader may determine that an opportunity to make illegal profits in the hundreds of millions may be worth the relatively low risk of getting caught and serving a short sentence of imprisonment."    Martoma's lawyers countered in court papers that an eight-year sentence would not take into account personal factors, such as the impact it would have on his wife and three children. "Mr. Martoma is not perfect, but he is a good man," they wrote. (Reporting by Nate Raymond in New York; Editing by Noeleen Walder, Amy Stevens and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
The stock market is at an all-time high, with the S&amp;P 500 at 2,003. Meanwhile, yields around the world have been tumbling. So, what happens next? Below are Goldman Sachs' current forecasts for the U.S. economy and every major financial asset class in the world. It comes from David Kostin's new US Weekly Kickstart note. The analysts see stocks around the world going a bit higher as yields come off their lows. Goldman Sachs In another note Tuesday, Morgan Stanley analysts made their case for the S&amp;P 500 going to 3,000 within the next five years or so. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersJapan's PM Abe attends a memorial service ceremony marking the the 69th anniversary of Japan's surrender in World War Two, at Budokan Hall in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's plan for Japan's economy to generate self-sustained growth on the back of his three policy "arrows" of massive monetary easing, spending and reform appears to be faltering - but no magic solution is in sight. Abe's aides and advisers are promising to forge ahead with painful structural reforms, while spreading the benefits of "Abenomics" to regional areas and drafting a long-term vision for addressing Japan's shrinking population. But gloomy economic data suggests the plan is not succeeding as hoped and the only short-term contingency plans appear to be further central bank stimulus or delaying a second rise in the sales tax set for October 2015. "Abenomics is in trouble - because it's not happening fast enough," said Robert Feldman, head of research at Morgan Stanley MUFG in Tokyo, who like many others says Abe must move faster on steps such as labour market reform to boost productivity. Failure could leave Japan's economy stuck in a low-growth mode or worse, unable to begin to curb public debt already more than twice the size of a $5 trillion economy, the biggest burden in the industrialized world. Abe's public support, now hovering around 50 percent, depends heavily on the economy. Most voters favor delaying next year's sales tax rise to 10 percent after an initial hike in April to 8 percent from 5 percent dented a fragile recovery. "Will raising the sales tax a second time just when the economy is moving toward recovery really be a plus for the people's livelihoods?" Koichi Hagiuda, an aide to Abe in his Liberal Democratic Party, said in an interview. "But there is also a risk to postponing it. Might not Japan lose the confidence of international society?" Hagiuda added. The two-stage rise in the consumption tax is Japan's boldest move in nearly two decades to rein in government debt. Abe will formally launch stage two of his administration on Wednesday when he reshuffles his cabinet, although key members are expected to stay on. The new cabinet will take over after a slew of troubling data including an annualized 6.8 percent drop in GDP in the April-June quarter. Potentially more worrisome, real wages have fallen for 13 straight months as wage growth lags price rises, data on Tuesday showed. That drop is casting doubt on a central tenet of Abenomics - that stimulus and higher prices would lift company profits and lead to higher wages, spurring consumption and making growth self-sustaining. "In order for income effects to work, wages must increase," Etsuro Honda, a key architect of Abe's reflationary policies, told Reuters. Honda said the sales tax rise should be delayed until 2017 and only imposed then if wage rises catch up with inflation and the BOJ's 2 percent inflation target has been met. Policymakers say that, unlike the initial round of Abenomics, when the Bank of Japan unleashed an intense burst of stimulus followed by public works and other government spending, the "third arrow" of deregulation and other structural reforms will take both time and political will. "The growth strategy is not a single arrow. There are many things that must be done that were put off during 20 years of deflation," said one private economist who advises Abe's government on policies. Abe's aides have made clear they want companies to play a bigger role in the revival, and not just rely on the benefits of a weak yen born of the Bank of Japan's easy money policy. "In a sense, the first arrow of monetary policy easing was a way of buying time," Vice Economy Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura told Reuters. "I want companies themselves, led by shareholders, to exit unprofitable businesses and shift to new growth areas." Private economists say for that to happen, the government must step up the pace of deregulation and other changes such as reform of labour laws. For now, though, the political calendar looks likely to dictate a focus on persuading voters outside the capital they have not been left out of a program that has so far benefited mostly big companies and Tokyo. Abe's LDP faces several elections for local governors in October and November as well as nationwide polls for local assemblies next April. A poor showing could affect Abe's chances of winning a second three-year term in party leadership race a year from now. That has some Abe advisers worried politicians may revert to old-style wooing of voters with spending, rather than reform. "I think they should opt for tough reforms, but politicians may not see it that way," Heizo Takenaka, an economist and member of an advisory panel on regulatory reform, told Reuters. Policymakers are also pledging to draft a vision of how to keep Japan's ageing population from shrinking into oblivion, holding the line at 100 million in 2060, a 20 percent drop from now. While such long-term thinking would be welcome, economists said Abe needs to speed up efforts to boost productivity. "Abe must work harder to follow through his 'Third Arrow' by implementing labour market and other reforms that may prove painful near-term," said Masamichi Adachi, senior economist at JPMorgan Securities Japan. (Additional reporting by Yuko Yoshikawa; Editing by John Mair and Raju Gopalakrishnan) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidFRANKFURT (Reuters) - Expectations for further policy action at the European Central Bank's meeting on Thursday are running high after ECB President Mario Draghi pledged to use all available tools to keep prices in check. But investors may be in for disappointment as resistance to quantitative easing (QE) remains stiff, particularly in Germany, while there is an increasing recognition that the ECB may not be able to solve Europe's problems alone. Draghi told a central bank conference in Jackson Hole on Aug. 22 that financial market inflation expectations were falling significantly and the ECB would use "all available instruments needed to ensure price stability". In a dramatic departure from debt-cutting orthodoxy, he also said there was scope for fiscal policy - more government spending - to play a greater role in reviving growth, an apparent acknowledgement of the limits of the ECB's powers. German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble were reported to have called Draghi seeking clarification and Schaeuble later said he had been "overinterpreted". Either way, the ECB president's monthly news conference will be under minute scrutiny for signs that he is sticking to or diluting his Jackson Hole speech which departed from the text, leading some economists to believe Draghi had gone out on a limb as with his 2012 "whatever-it-takes" to save the euro speech. Several economists now see a larger chance of the ECB embarking on QE in the coming months. "QE is now largely unavoidable because inflation continues to persistently undershoot," said Citigroup economist Guillaume Menuet. He expects the ECB to announce such plans in December. A Reuters poll put a 40 percent chance on the ECB conducting outright purchases of sovereign bonds by March next year. [ID:nL3N0QY4DR] Action on this front is unlikely on Thursday, though, and with the main interest rate at a record low 0.15 percent and the deposit rate below zero there is little scope for action there either. The ECB is also waiting to see the impact of its new four-year loan program. Under the plan announced in June, banks can take up to 400 billion euros in September and December, and even more next year if they keep lending into the real economy. To start printing money now would be to acknowledge the failure of the long-term loans before they have even started. Nordea analyst Jan von Gerich said: "I don't think they want to be seen panicking. And doing something other than a broad-based asset purchase program, for example with the interest rates, would seem to make little sense."   NEW FORECASTS The ECB's update of its economic projections will be key. Disappointing euro zone growth data and inflation moving closer toward zero and further away from the ECB's target of close to 2 percent will likely prompt yet another downward revision of its staff forecasts on Thursday. In June, it said inflation would only get back to 1.5 percent in the last quarter of 2016 compared with its March forecast of 1.7 percent. The market-based inflation expectation rate Draghi cited in Jackson Hole - the five-year, five-year forward breakeven rate &lt;euil5yf5y=r&gt; - has picked up since his speech. On Monday, Draghi met French President Francois Hollande in Paris. An official in the president's office said they agreed deflation and weak growth were threatening Europe's economy. The French government has consistently called for the ECB to do more to bring down the euro exchange rate to boost competitiveness. Over the last month, the euro has dropped from near $1.37 to around $1.31. The ECB is already "moving fast forward" with preparations to buy securitized loans, Draghi said in Jackson Hole, and economists expect further details on a possible asset-backed securities (ABS) program on Thursday. "The easiest way for them would be to confirm that they've agreed to do ABS and that they are in the final stages of dotting the 'i's and crossing the 't's," said Citigroup's Menuet. "I'm not sure they are willing yet to give us a number - I think that anywhere around 50 billion (euros) is the minimum they can announce, and perhaps that's the sort of intermediate stage they can agree on before spending the next three months building a QE strategy." Others are not so sure. With euro zone bond yields already at record lows, the impact of a QE program could be limited while banishing any pressure on governments to pursue structural economic reforms. "The ECB council will likely worry about the moral hazard aspects of QE, which could easily tempt governments in Italy, France and elsewhere to go even slower on reforms," Morgan Stanley analysts said in a research note. QE remained a measure of last resort, they said.   (Additional reporting by Paul Carrel, editing by Mike Peacock) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Beck DiefenbachThe S&amp;P 500 is up a whopping 200% from its March 2009 low. At 2,003, the S&amp;P has already exceeded many analysts' forecasts. Morgan Stanley strategist Adam Parker and economist Ellen Zentner believe that the conditions are just right for the bull market to keep going for years. "Our best guess is that an S&amp;P 500 peak of near 3000 is possible should the U.S. expansion prove to have five or more years left to it, based on 6% per annum EPS growth through that time frame and a 17x price-to-earnings ratio," Parker writes. Like many experts on Wall Street, Parker reminds us that our recent experience of crisis to recovery is not like most of history's boom-and-bust cycles. He also reminds us that bull markets and economic recoveries don't just end because they have gone on for a long time. "We believe a prolonged period of deleveraging in the U.S., coupled with an uneven global recovery, are just two of the reasons why this could prove to be the longest US expansion — ever," he writes. In a meaty 27-page research note titled "2020 Vision: Long Live the Expansion," Parker and Zentner argue that the U.S. economy is actually only in the early parts of its growth cycle. It is also uniquely positioned in the world, benefiting from low volatility, healthier balance sheets, and a lack of corporate exuberance. Here's their bulleted summary (verbatim): A couple of things are worth highlighting from the analysts' note. First is their comment about capital expenditures, or business investment. The capex recovery has been one of the most highly anticipated and controversial aspects of this recovery. And recent data show that it's finally happening. However, Parker notes that capex levels are still at reasonable levels when considered relative to sales. For Parker, this is a sign that "hubris" is absent. Morgan Stanley No one has forgotten the financial crisis, which was highlighted by a freeze in credit. This had even the most financially healthy companies struggling to meet their financial obligations. However, that memory also had companies turning their balance sheets into fortress balance sheets. Many companies engaged in aggressive amounts of refinancing, which pushed the maturities on their debt back by several years. Morgan Stanley From an income statement perspective, a very high interest coverage ratio shows that companies have plenty of operating earnings to finance their current debt financing needs. Morgan Stanley Obviously, there's no guarantee that we're looking at five years of smooth sailing. "There are a number of ways the current expansion could get derailed," Parker writes. "Europe and China are already slowing and near recession in some parts. Japan is highly dependent on the success of policy. U.S. reforms on key issues like the budget, taxes and entitlements, and immigration seem a long way off and are likely to cause much angst in the coming years. And after a prolonged period of unprecedented monetary policy accommodation, we are on the cusp of removal of that accommodation — also in an unprecedented way." But their base case remains quite bullish. "As the prolonged expansion becomes more visible, we'd expect a materially higher U.S. stock market." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA general view shows of the headquarters of the Bank for International Settlements in Basel(Reuters) - As banks around the world gear up to meet tough Basel III regulatory standards, Islamic lenders face a source of uncertainty that could prove expensive for them: how regulators will treat their deposits. In most ways, Islamic banks look well-placed to cope with Basel III, which will be phased in across the globe over the next few years. Most of the banks are from the Gulf and southeast Asia, where economies are strong. Since Islamic finance frowns on monetary speculation, their balance sheets are largely clear of the derivatives and complex, risky assets that sunk some of their conventional peers during the global financial crisis. They should therefore have little trouble in meeting Basel III's minimum capital standards. But their deposit bases could become a headache. Because interest payments are not allowed by sharia principles, Islamic banks obtain deposits mostly through profit-sharing investment accounts (PSIAs), which are generally considered to be more volatile than conventional deposits. Islamic banks are expected to be required to offset that volatility under Basel III by increasing the amount of high-quality liquid assets (HQLAs) which they hold. But Islamic securities markets are much younger, shallower and less developed than conventional markets, so sharia-compliant HQLAs are in short supply - squeezing Islamic banks on two fronts. "These are two of the more important challenges that Basel III is introducing to the Islamic finance industry," said Paris-based Mohamed Damak, primary credit analyst at credit rating agency Standard &amp; Poor's. Islamic commercial banks held about $1.2 trillion worth of assets at the end of last year, according to a study by Thomson Reuters. They account for roughly a quarter of deposits in Gulf Arab countries and over a fifth in Malaysia. Basel III requires banks to hold enough HQLAs to cover net cash outflows for a 30-day period under a high-stress scenario. Outflows are calculated by applying different weights to funding sources, including PSIAs. The riskier the funding source, the larger the amount of HQLAs needed to cover it. So a lot will depend on the weights or "run-off rates" which national regulators around the world, who will implement Basel III in their own jurisdictions, choose to assign to PSIAs. Regulators have yet to give an indication of the likely weights. They are keen to develop their Islamic banking sectors, so they are unlikely to assign punitive weights. But they may not be able to treat PSIAs as benignly as conventional bank deposits. For instance, PSIAs held by Islamic banks tend to have relatively short maturities, according to an S&amp;P report. The treatment of PSIAs will also depend on factors specific to the Islamic banking industry in each country, such as how it behaved in past stress situations, and the track record of Islamic banks in passing losses on to deposit holders under their contracts, Damak said. The uncertainty looks unlikely to be cleared up at least until early next year, when the Malaysia-based Islamic Financial Services Board (IFSB), a global standard-setting body, is expected to release a guidance note on the subject. "Ultimately it is the regulator in each country that will decide what will be the treatment of PSIAs, and here the IFSB guidance note will be of significant value to help regulators decide how to treat PSIAs," Damak said. The note will deal with issues such as the contractual rights of depositors, for example whether they can withdraw money in fewer than 30 days without a significant penalty, said a source familiar with the IFSB's deliberations. Malaysia's central bank has issued some guidance on PSIAs, saying it will classify them as two types: general PSIAs, broadly equivalent to conventional retail deposits, and specific or restricted PSIAs, deemed similar to managed investment accounts. It has given Islamic banks a two-year transition period to differentiate between those types. But while the central bank has already spelled out ratios and weights for Basel III capital adequacy rules, it has not yet announced run-off rates or HQLA requirements for PSIAs. Commercial bankers think these might be revealed early next year, after the IFSB guidance. Basel III says national regulators around the world could assign run-off rates of 3 percent or higher to stable, conventional bank deposits, and as much as 10 percent to less stable deposits, according to S&amp;P. Most Islamic banks may end up being assigned numbers within that range; given the size of the deposits at stake, a variation of several percentage points could make a big difference to how much HQLAs the banks are forced to hold. The PSIA issue may increase pressure on central banks and governments around the Islamic world to address some longstanding problems in Islamic finance. One is the small supply of HQLAs. With the exception of Malaysia and Bahrain, few central banks actively issue instruments which qualify as HQLAs, Damak said. Government-issued sukuk qualify, but most sovereign sukuk are either not listed on developed markets or are not actively traded, making it very hard for Islamic banks to obtain them. This contrasts with conventional banks' access to huge markets in high-quality government debt such as U.S. Treasuries and German Bunds. Alternatives such as the short-term sukuk issued by the Malaysia-based International Islamic Liquidity Management Corp, which was established to promote a cross-border market in Islamic instruments, remain small compared with the overall size of the industry, Damak noted. As part of its efforts to develop as an Islamic financial center, Dubai is actively trying to list sukuk on its exchanges and encouraging its state-linked firms to issue tradeable sukuk, but it may be years before supply begins to meet demand. Another problem is deposit insurance. For bank deposits to be deemed stable they need to be protected by an insurance scheme, but sharia-compliant schemes are rare, partly because government support for domestic banks is considered implicit in many Gulf countries. Bahrain introduced Islamic deposit insurance in 1993. In May this year, Qatar said it would develop an Islamic deposit insurance scheme. In June, Bangladesh said Islamic deposits would be covered under an existing scheme managed by the central bank. "It will be harder for Islamic banks, in respect of run-off factors for PSIA, but there are solutions or mitigants as the example of Qatar illustrates," said the source familiar with the IFSB's deliberations. (Editing by Andrew Torchia) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tom Mihalek In case you had any doubt that the attempt by Atlantic City to revive itself as a gambling destination had completely flopped, check out the series of casino closures that are all happening right now. This is from Capital NY's Capital Real Estate newsletter: Atlantic City as we know it is dead: Showboat closed Sunday. Revel, the city’s newest and most expensive resort, pushed hotel guests out the door on Monday and closed its casino floor early this morning. Trump Plaza is to fold in two weeks. And just like that, Atlantic City’s glory days are officially over. Never again will the city be the gaming mecca it once was. Atlantic City's economy is already ailing, and just the closure of Showboat and Revel will cost the city 5,000 jobs, according to the AP. The closures are simple to explain: Total gambling revenues were over $5 billion in 2006. Today they're about $2.6 billion. Meanwhile, things are getting a little melodramatic at Revel, a $2 billion boondoggle that has twice filed for bankruptcy. A flower on the steps of @RevelResorts, which is closed for business pic.twitter.com/qLEUJvwyaU This really says it all pic.twitter.com/ed8sv4HDxl Revel sign carted off #acpress pic.twitter.com/6hP8dTNwqh Instead, the project didn't last a year before filing for bankruptcy, as the Great Recession and increased competition wiped out interest among gamblers. Morgan Stanley sold its stake at a $932 million loss.  In a recent news conference, A.C. officials tried to put a sunny face on the situation. Resorts Hotel and Casino CEO Mark Giannantonio insisted his units were having "the best summer in about a decade." The head of the town's non-profit promotional organization likewise said data showed stronger activity this year.  But Mayor Ron Guardian acknowledged up to 300 city employees would have to be laid off.  FREE AppDownload
APFormer U.S. House Majority Leader Eric Cantor will join investment bank Moelis &amp; Co  as vice chairman and managing director, the company said, adding that Cantor would also be elected to its board. Cantor, who was defeated in June by a Tea Party challenger in a Republican primary election, will provide strategic counsel to the company's corporate and institutional clients on key issues, Moelis said. "Eric has proven himself to be a pro-business advocate and one who will enhance our boardroom discussions with CEOs and senior management as we help them navigate their most important strategic decisions," Moelis CEO Ken Moelis said in a statement. Cantor, the No. 2 Republican in the House of Representatives, was beaten by college economics professor David Brat, who accused Cantor of betraying conservative principles on spending, debt, and immigration. Cantor stepped down from his leadership position in the Republican-controlled House of Representatives last month and resigned from his Virginia seat.  According to the FT, Eric Cantor is set to receive a $1.4 million signing bonus. (Joseph Weisenthal contributed to this report) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA worker at Belgian company Picanol demonstrates how iron is melted in a foundry at the factory's plant in YpresBRUSSELS (Reuters) - A drop in the highly volatile energy prices depressed euro zone producer prices in July as expected, underlining disinflationary pressures in the single currency area ahead of the European Central Bank's monetary policy meeting on Thursday. Prices at factory gates in the 18 countries sharing the euro fell as anticipated by 0.1 percent in July against June and dropped 1.1 percent on the year, the EU's statistics office Eurostat said on Tuesday. The annual drop was the steepest since April's 1.2 percent decline. Producer prices are an early indication of price trends. Unless their fluctuations are absorbed by retailers, they eventually translate into consumer inflation or deflation. Both the monthly and the annual declines were influenced by a 0.6 percent and 3.5 percent drop respectively in the costs of energy, data showed. Prices in all other sectors, such as durable and non-durable consumer goods, were flat in July when compared with June. The ECB meets on Thursday, facing a dilemma how to respond to vanishing inflation in the 9.6 trillion euro economy whose recovery unexpectedly stalled in the second quarter, only two months after an interest rate cut in June. A majority of economists expect the ECB to stay on hold in September and wait for effects of its last rate cut to kick in, including targeted longer-term refinancing operations aimed to boost bank landing. Producer prices in July, when compared with the same period last year, rose only in three euro zone countries - Estonia, Ireland and Latvia and were flat in the twice bailed-out Greece. The largest year-on-year drop was recorded in Belgium with a 5.7 percent decline, followed by Slovakia's 2.9 percent annual fall.  (Reporting by Martin Santa) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWorld's first eight costumers of new BMW i8 plug-in hybrid sports car receive instructions during official delivery in MunichFRANKFURT (Reuters) - Sales of new cars in Germany, Europe's biggest auto market, declined about 0.5 percent in August, an industry source familiar with the matter told Reuters on Tuesday. Germany's main VDA auto industry association and the KBA Department of Motor Vehicles are due to publish August sales data later on Tuesday.   (Reporting by Jan Schwartz; Writing by Harro ten Wolde; Editing by Alexander Ratz and Victoria Bryan) FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Leo RamirezThe shelves at a supermarket in Caracas sit empty on Jan. 22, 2012. Prices keep rising in Venezuela, economic activity is sputtering, and shops struggle to fill their shelves. But don't ask the central bank how bad things really are: it hasn't published key data in months. The last time the central bank and the national statistics institute published the annual inflation figure was in May, when the indicator rose to 61 percent, the highest in Latin America. Officials have not given any explanations despite repeated requests from economists, politicians, and journalists seeking economic data. "This destroys the credibility of the central bank. There has never been this kind of a delay for as long as we have been measuring inflation," said economist Jose Guerra, a former economic research chief at the bank. A similar delay took place late last year, when the government of socialist President Nicolas Maduro waited one month to release November data, until after municipal elections. "The government has not wanted to make June and July inflation figures public," Guerra said, citing data from central bank technicians. The Venezuelan central bank has withheld figures for months this time — even though it is part of the International Monetary Fund's General Data Dissemination System, which encourages members to publish sound statistical data. "Little by little, statistics have been put aside for political purposes," said Francisco Ibarra, director of the consulting firm Econometrica. But, he added, "you can't hide inflation because people see it on the street." Ibarra said the lack of official data could give rise to parallel, private statistics much like what is taking place in Argentina, another economically troubled South American nation. "Sooner or later, the International Monetary Fund will box Venezuela's ears because it's one thing to want to be a renegade, and another to hide information," he said. Another key indicator that disappeared four months ago is the index of shortages of basic goods even as Venezuelans continue to stand in long lines at stores bereft of everything from toilet paper to cooking oil and medicine. The central bank last reported the scarcity index in March, when 19 basic goods were said to face "serious supply problems." That month, corn oil shortages were at 100 percent while flour and milk were absent in nine out of 10 stores. Hiding such figures "does not help the economy," Ibarra said, adding that employment and balance of payments data for the last quarter of 2013 were also delayed. "It's an intentional policy, and it has no rational economic or institutional explanation. They don't want a debate in these areas," he said. Last week, the Venezuelan chamber of commerce, Fedecamaras, complained about the lack of statistics. "There's no way to make plans," Fedecamaras president Jorge Roig said. The organization, which represents most private firms, has begun to compile its own data. Private consulting firms are doing the same. The chamber says the country's gross domestic product fell by 4 percent in the first quarter. The government has yet to give a GDP forecast for 2014, with the last projection coming eight months ago, when it predicted growth of four percent. FREE AppDownload
Scott Olson / Getty Images LONDON (Reuters) - Burger King may have taken a lot of flack in the past week for a deal that should curb its U.S. tax bill but in many ways it is consistent with the burger chain’s aggressive tax-reduction strategies in recent years. Some U.S. lawmakers and other critics attacked the company that is the home of the Whopper for deciding to move its tax base to Canada from the U.S. through its proposed purchase of Oakville, Ontario-based coffee and doughnut chain Tim Hortons &lt;thi.to&gt;. They say it will allow Burger King &lt;bkw.n&gt; to avoid paying some U.S. taxes. That would be nothing new. A Reuters analysis of Burger King’s regulatory filings in the U.S. and overseas, which was also reviewed by accounting experts, shows that it has been making major efforts to reduce its U.S. tax bill for some time. By massaging down U.S. taxable profits while maximizing the profits it reports in low-tax jurisdictions overseas, Burger King is able to operate one of the most tax-efficient businesses in the U.S. fast-food industry. The chain’s effective tax rate of 26 percent over the past three years compares with rates above 31 percent at McDonalds Corp &lt;mcd.n&gt;, Starbucks Corp &lt;sbux.o&gt; and Dunkin Brands Group Inc &lt;dnkn.o&gt;. KFC and Pizza Hut owner Yum Brands &lt;yum.n&gt; did have a similar tax rate to Burger King though this reflects the 74 pct of its revenues that were generated outside the U.S., in markets where tax rates are typically around 25 percent. The Burger King rate is 30 percent lower than the average tax rate it paid in the five years before it was bought in 2010 by private equity group 3G, still  the company’s majority shareholder. The accounting experts say the Canadian move will allow Burger King to double-down on those efforts as it will open up new tax-saving opportunities for the company. It could, for example, apply the tax structures it currently employs in major markets like Germany and Britain, and which allow the group to operate almost tax free in those places, to its business in the United States, they said. And that could mean Uncle Sam will lose corporate tax income that Burger King would have to pay under its current structure. “I would be surprised if in five years’ time, their tax rate does not come down reasonably dramatically,” said Professor Stephen Shay, from Harvard Law School, who has testified to Congress on corporate taxation. Burger King declined to comment on its current U.S. tax arrangements. But it has said the so-called "inversion" deal to buy Tim Hortons for $11.5 billion, and move the headquarters to Canada, was based on Canada being the combined company’s biggest market. It said the deal was about international expansion – particularly of the Tim Hortons' brand and not about tax savings. “We don't expect our tax rate to change materially. As I said this transaction is not really about tax, it's about growth,” Chief Executive Daniel Schwartz said in a call with analysts last week. It would be perfectly legal for Burger King to reduce its U.S. tax bill through the Canadian move. Chas Roy-Chowdhury, Head of Taxation at the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants in London, said companies all over the world manage their tax bills so they don’t have to pay more tax than necessary. “If the U.S. doesn’t like inversion deals, it should change the law to prevent them. The U.S. has a leaky corporation tax system which encourages companies to park profits offshore,” he said.   U.S. MARGINS LOW Finding ways to report less income to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and more to overseas tax authorities is a particular focus for companies with a headquarters or big operations in the U.S. because of the headline federal corporate tax rate of 35 percent on profits. It is the highest headline corporate tax rate in any major developed country, and can be even higher once state and local taxes are added on. There is an incentive for companies to shift U.S.-generated profits overseas, where rates can be very low, the experts say. Burger King generated almost 60 percent of its revenues in the United States between 2011 and 2013, regulatory filings show, but the chain reported just 20 percent of its profits in the country over the period. By contrast, the percentage of their profits that McDonalds, Starbucks Corp, Dunkin Brands and Yum reported as being earned in the United States was in line with the percentage of their total revenues generated in the country. Those companies all declined to comment. Shay said Burger King’s large debt load could explain why it has more ability to manage its U.S. tax bill than less leveraged peers. Burger King’s low reported U.S. profit translates to domestic profit margins of just an average 4 percent between 2011-2013 - a fifth of the level it recorded in overseas markets in that time. The company declined to say why its U.S. operation enjoyed such low margins over the period – it reported a small U.S. loss in 2012 and a tiny profit for 2011, though the profit was up to a much healthier level by 2013. There could be explanations other than tax-driven moves for the low margins. The U.S. fast food market is the most competitive in the world, and prices for fast food offerings are lower than in some other major markets as a result. However, a lot of the burden, including increased labor costs as the minimum wages rises in some states and spending on a refurbishment program for Burger King restaurants, would be borne by the company’s franchisees. Burger King operates very few of its own restaurants. Professor Daniel Shaviro from New York University Law School, who was previously Legislation Attorney at the Joint Congressional Committee on Taxation, said tax planning likely had a lot to do with the low levels of income reported in the U.S.  The company’s accounts show the low reported U.S margins are due, at least in part, to how hundreds of millions of dollars in group overheads, such as head office and debt costs are spread across the company each year. Before such costs are applied, profit margins at Burger King’s United States and Canada division (the U.S. produces 91 percent of that unit's revenue) are in line with international operations, at around 39 percent, its filings show. But after these costs are applied, the North American unit ends up with its rock-bottom margins. Most of these costs are taken in the U.S. because it is where cash is borrowed, and senior managers and product innovators are based. But tax rules state that such costs should be evenly spread across international divisions, said Kimberly Clausing, a Professor of Economics at Reed University. Reed said the gap between Burger King’s gross and pre-tax profit figures for the United States suggested such group-wide costs are being disproportionately offset against U.S. income. “That’s one way of shifting income abroad ... it’s a common problem,” for the IRS, said Reed.   TAX FREE IN GERMANY Burger King also operates a tax-efficient operation overseas. By channeling income through Switzerland it has managed to pay an effective tax rate of 15 percent on foreign income over the past three years, company filings and statements show. Experts said this arrangement could become a template for how Burger King, as a foreign company, could shave its U.S. tax rate further. The impact in Germany shows how that could cost the U.S. Treasury. Germany has historically been Burger King’s largest market outside North America, generating over 10 percent of total sales. In 2011 and 2012, the last two years for which figures were available, the German operation had combined sales of $501 million – over half the total for the Europe, Middle East and Africa region, regulatory filings show. In 10 conference calls with analysts covering the two-year period, transcripts of which Reuters reviewed, then-Chief Financial Officer Schwartz mentioned the German market eight times, and each time spoke of its “strong performance” or “positive” results. EMEA operating profits for 2011 and 2012 totaled $356 million. Yet, Burger King Beteilligung GmbH – the entity which consolidated earnings for the group’s main German operating units - reported losses in 2011 and 2012, totaling over $10 million and recorded a net income tax credit of more than 200,000 euros. Burger King Germany’s taxable income was reduced partly because German stores pay around five percent of their turnover to an affiliate in Switzerland, Burger King Europe GmbH, the company told Reuters in 2012. Burger King Europe GmbH owns brand rights for Europe, the Middle East and Africa – which also allows profits from other places, not just Germany, to be at least partly funneled through Switzerland. Burger King declined to say why the group declared no profits in Germany at the same time as it boasted to investors about the market’s strength, but a spokeswoman said the tax structure in Europe pre-dated New-York based 3G’s acquisition of the chain in 2010. Almost all of Burger King’s restaurants are now run on a franchise basis rather than directly by the company, and more than 80 percent of the company’s revenue comes from franchise fees and property revenue. At the end of last year, it had 7,384 franchised restaurants in the U.S. and 52 company owned and run – the latter are in the Miami area near the company’s current headquarters so it can test new food offerings and other changes to the way it operates. Under U.S. tax rules, Burger King cannot currently cut its American tax bill by routing franchise fees from its U.S. franchisees via Switzerland. But these rules would not apply to a Canadian company. The company spokeswoman said Burger King had no plans to shift franchisees into contracts with offshore subsidiaries.   (Reporting by Tom Bergin; Editing by Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorAn armed police officer on duty in Downing Street, central London. British Prime Minister David Cameron said on Monday he would bring in new laws to give police the power to seize the passports of suspected Iraq- and Syria-bound Islamist fighters. 1. Ukraine president Petro Poroshenko accused Russia in a speech on Monday of "direct and unconcealed aggression" as the military crisis in the country's eastern region continues.  2. NATO officials set to meet in Wales on Friday announced plans to create a force of 4,000 troops "capable of deploying quickly to Eastern Europe," The New York Times said.  3. In a speech on Monday, British Prime Minister David Cameron suggested giving the police the power to seize the passports of British citizens suspected of trying to leave the country to support the Islamic State, also known as ISIS.   4. The National Institutes of Health plans to fast-track the first test on humans of an Ebola vaccine.  5. The FBI is now involved in an investigation to uncover the hacker responsible for posting hundreds of nude photos of celebrities online.  6. Support for Scottish independence is gaining, the Press Association reports, in advance of the Sept. 18 referendum in which residents of Scotland will vote Yes or No to staying a part of the U.K.  7. U.S. forces have launched an attack against Al-Shabaab, an Islamist terror group affiliated with Al Qaeda, in Somalia.  8. During a meeting in Paris, French President Francois Hollande and European Central Bank President Mario Draghi agreed that the two threats to the EU's economy were deflation and weak growth, Reuters said.  9. The U.S. government has requested the release of three Americans detained in North Korea, one serving a 15-year term and two facing trial, who pleaded for help from Washington in a CNN interview.  10. Mexican authorities are looking into why at least 53 tons of fish turned up dead in a lagoon.  And finally... Russia said on Monday that all five geckos involved in a space experiment to see how zero gravity affected their sex lives died on the journey back to Earth. : (  R.I.P: Oleg Voloshin/Institute of Biomedical ProblemsGeckos in space last year. FREE AppDownload
