Steps from the Barclays Center, Diamante's Brooklyn Cigar Lounge is an old school, late-night hot spot for Brooklyn Nets players run by the 'man with the golden voice' and the arena's announcer, David Diamante. He gave us some tips for channeling your inner Bogart while lighting up a stogie. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Additional camera by Graham Flanagan. Follow BI Video: On YouTube
Screenshot/Democracy NowCecily McMillan appears on Democracy NowAn Occupy Wall Street activist is facing up to seven years in prison after being convicted by a jury in Manhattan of assaulting a New York police officer as he led her out of a protest. Cecily McMillan was on Monday afternoon found guilty of deliberately elbowing Officer Grantley Bovell in the face in March 2012. After a trial lasting more than four weeks, the jury of eight women and four men reached their verdict in about three hours. Judge Ronald Zweibel ordered that McMillan, 25, a graduate student at the New School, be detained. He rejected a request from her lawyers for bail. “I see absolutely no reason why a remand would be appropriate here,” Martin Stolar, her lead attorney, told the judge. “She is not likely to be somebody to cut and run.” Zweibel replied: “Remanded pending sentencing.” Supporters of McMillan in the courtroom reacted furiously, shouting “shame” and screaming at the more than 30 police officers lining room 1116 at Manhattan criminal court. After half a dozen refused to leave the court, two were carried out by police officers. Wearing a white dress and a beige jacket, McMillan sat still and silent as the verdict was read on her charge of second-degree assault, a felony. McMillan was placed in handcuffs by police and led out of the courtroom as supporters went on shouting. “Corruption is the fuel, the court is the tool,” one chanted. Sentencing was scheduled for 19 May. Her lawyers said she was being taken to the women’s facility at the Riker’s Island jail. Speaking outside, Stolar described the verdict as “a terrible mistake” and criticised Zweibel's decision to detain McMillan, a first-time convict, before sentencing. “She never missed a court appearance, she has always been here, and is fully cognisant of what the consequences of a guilty verdict are,” he said. Claiming that Zweibel had made “numerous errors” during the trial, Stolar said: “Those will be the subject of an appeal. We have optimistic thoughts about what an appeal might do, such as send it back for a new trial.” McMillan was found guilty of intentionally assaulting Bovell in order to “prevent him from performing his lawful duty”. Her conviction is the most serious of the dozens against members of the protest movement, which sprang up in the autumn of 2011. Hers is believed to be the last of more than 2,600 prosecutions brought against members of the movement, most of which were dismissed or dropped. Prosecutors accused McMillan of attacking Bovell, 35, as he walked her out of Zuccotti Park, in lower Manhattan, where activists had gathered on the night of 17 March 2012 to mark six months of the Occupy movement. Bovell had found her screaming at a female officer, who had asked her to leave the park so that it could be cleaned, prosecutors said. Assistant district attorney Erin Choi told the court last month that Bovell was walking behind McMillan with his hand on her shoulder. McMillan asked people around her “Are you filming this?”, said Choi, and then “crouched down, then bent her knees, and then aimed her elbow at the officer and then jumped up to strike”. “Officer Bovell was completely horrified,” said Choi. “This was the last thing he was expecting to happen that day.” Photographs showed that Bovell suffered a black eye. He said that he went on to experience headaches and sensitivity to light. Prosecutors showed the jury grainy video clips of the incident, downloaded from YouTube, which they said proved McMillan deliberately struck Bovell before attempting to run away. Less than two hours into their deliberations, the jury asked if they could re-watch the video footage. They were given a laptop on which to view it in the jury room. Stolar, who argued in court that the clips were not clear enough to prove anything, told the Guardian that he thought they were responsible for the conviction. “I think that is the only piece of evidence that a jury could hang its hat on,” he said. “On a quick glance without analysis, it looks like an assault. But it does not show what happened to Cecily.” McMillan claimed that she swung her arm back instinctively only after having one of her breasts grabbed from behind while she was walking out of the park. Her lawyers showed photographs of bruising to her chest to support this. They said McMillan did not know that Bovell was a police officer, and did not intend to hurt him. Stolar told the jury that on a “day off from protest”, McMillan became caught up in the chaotic scenes at Zuccotti Park, after she stopped by to collect a friend to continue St Patrick's Day celebrations with a friend visiting from out of town, which saw her dressed in bright green. Testifying, McMillan said that she had “no memory” of the moment her elbow struck Bovell. “I’m really sorry that officer got hurt,” she said. She has said that she suffered a seizure or anxiety attack after being arrested, a claim supported by activists who say they saw her convulsing on the pavement, and subsequently received treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder. Choi, however, described McMillan's account as “so utterly ridiculous and unbelievable that she might as well have said that aliens came down that night and assaulted her”. She said the bruising was not detected during two hospital checks on the night of the incident and suggested that McMillan caused it herself. In his own testimony, Bovell, a Barbados-born US navy veteran who typically patrols the 40th precinct in the Bronx, said: “I remember the defendant crouching down and, all of a sudden, she lunged her elbow back and hit me in the face.” McMillan rejected an earlier offer from prosecutors for her to plead guilty to a charge of second-degree assault of a police officer, which would have still resulted in her being classed as a felon, in exchange for a recommendation to the judge that she should not receive a prison sentence. Her lawyers stressed throughout the trial that she was a moderate left-wing political activist who had urged her fellow Occupy members to pursue a path of non-violent engagement with the state. The prosecutors, however, were unmoved, accusing McMillan of using the movement as a shield. “It is time for the defendant to answer for her own criminal actions,” Choi said in her closing arguments last week. “Our founding fathers did not create a right to free assembly so people could commit crimes and hide behind their right to protest. This is a sacred right that should be preserved and protected.” A loyal group of McMillan supporters, which calls itself Justice4Cecily, said in a statement that it was “devastated by the jury’s verdict”. It criticised Zweibel for blocking McMillan’s lawyers from citing past allegations of violent conduct against Bovell, and for banning them from speaking to the media early on in the trial. “He is rightly known as ‘a prosecutor in robes’,” the group said. Asked to elaborate on his complaints about Zweibel’s handling of the trial, Stolar said: “I have a lot of opinions about this judge, but I still have to appear before him, so … I am not going to be too glib.” This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Nacho DoceFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. NOVOGRATZ: Brazil's So Bad, It's Good (Bloomberg TV) Brazil has had a rough go of it recently. Its economic growth has been disappointing and inflation is still high. "My bet is that it is so bad that you’re going to see regime change come the October elections," Michael Novogratz, principal of Fortress Investment Group, told Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle at the Sohn Investment Conference. "And because pessimism is at an all-time high, when you go down and visit Brazil every local you speak to is wildly depressed." Novogratz's trade idea is that Brazil is so bad, it's good.  He said the most "promising" thing from a trade perspective is that president Dilma Rousseff's poll numbers continue to plunge and "our view is she'll probably lose the election. … She’s praying for the soccer team like all the Brazilians to maybe give the country a lift and her to get some – some momentum from it, but – but our real sense – our serious sense is that she’s on a one-way ticket lower in polls. And as those polls tick lower, Brazilian assets will tick higher." Why Bond Investors Should Not Shorten Duration (Vanguard) Bond investors who worry about rising interest rates shouldn't turn to an all-short duration strategy for two key reasons says Joe Davis, chief economist at Vanguard. "One would be how confident an advisor or an investor would be in terms of divining where interest rates will go," Davis said. "And second, relatedly, it’s just the steepness of the yield curve. Intermediate-term yields or intermediate-term bond funds are yielding significantly more than short-duration portfolios today. "And so if one is going to go short, there’s a give up by some portfolios 200 to 300 basis points. And so the key question is, do interest rates evolve over the next two or three years fundamentally differently than what the bond market expects? I think one would have to have the view that interest rates, and the Federal Reserve in particular, is going to raise rates much more aggressively than the bond market expects for short-duration portfolio strategy to significantly pay off relative to a broader bond market exposure." SEC Charges Ohio Investment Advisor With Lying About Client Assets (Investment News) The SEC has charged Professional Investment Management Inc (PIM) and Douglas E. Cowgill with "material overstatements of client assets and violations of the custody rule," according to the complaint. The SEC alleges that the Ohio-based investment advisor overstated client assets by $753,535 in a certain money-market fund, for each of the last three months of 2013. "PIM is operating without registration with any regulatory authority and has submitted false documents to the commission — with whom PIM is required to be registered," according to the SEC complaint. "PIM continues to issue false account statements to clients, make redemptions requested by clients misinformed about their holdings, and charge fees to clients based on a percentage of assets under management (which assets are overstated)." Advisors Should Do Away With Quarterly Reports (The Wall Street Journal) Katie Stokes, director of financial planning at J.E. Wilson Advisors, thinks that advisors should do away with quarterly reports as a way of communicating with clients. "We now use an online platform to provide and deliver information about our clients' portfolios," she writes in a new WSJ column. "Using this software, clients can access the same information they were getting in their typical quarterly report: returns, allocation, holdings, realized gains and losses. But rather than reading--or more likely, throwing out--a paper account of outdated information about their investments, clients can now follow it digitally, in real time." 2014 Is Turning Into An 'Annus Horribilis' For Wall Street's Stock-Picking Pros (Goldman Sachs) After a stellar run in 2013, stocks have had a much more volatile year in 2014. This has made it a particularly difficult time to be a stock picker. "Calendar year 2014 is now 1/3 behind us and for many equity portfolio managers the calendar is turning into an annus horribilis to use the phrase immortalized by Queen Elizabeth II," Goldman Sachs' David Kostin said in a note to clients. "Nearly 90% of large-cap growth mutual funds, 90% of value funds, and 2/3 of core funds are trailing their style return benchmarks YTD (1%, 4%, and 2%, respectively)." "Stock-picking has been extraordinarily challenging this year," added Kostin. "The typical hedge fund had a YTD return slightly below zero as of April 30. Dispersion of S&amp;P 500 stock returns for the last three months ranks at the 1st percentile compared with the past 30 years." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dylan MartinezLiverpool fans react following their English Premier League soccer match against Crystal Palace at Selhurst Park in London May 5, 2014. Good morning, and welcome to Tuesday. Here’s what you need to know: Packer brawl. The pictures of the jaw-dropping fight between casino billionaire James Packer and Nine CEO David Gyngell have produced some cracker front pages for News Corp metro newspapers today. There’s also video, which you can see here. Some have been canvassing whether there might be more serious fallout from this for Packer’s business, given the strict approach governments take in many jurisdictions to casino licensing, but the ramifications remain unclear. I’d expect the shock and amusement will pass quickly and more attention will turn to what hell these blokes were thinking. Markets are up. The Dow was up 0.11% the Nasdaq up 0.34% and the S&amp;P 500 rose 4 points or 0.21% to 1,885. Asian markets had a rough day yesterday, with the Hang Seng the worst performer sliding 1.28% on weaker-than-expected Chinese manufacturing data. ASX futures are pointing to a slight rise on the open. RBA interest rates. The Reserve Bank has its monthly cash rate decision today, with no change expected. With inflation running around the top of the RBA’s 2-3% band and the housing sector remaining strong the case is building for a potential upward move in rates this year, however. The key thing to watch in the RBA statement is whether the board still believes ““the most prudent course is likely to be a period of stability in interest rates.” We’ll have live coverage at 2.30pm. China tipping point. There’s talk again of a possible Chinese property correction. UBS’s Tao Wang has a new note out putting a 15% chance of a correction in the Chinese property market which would slow GDP to 5% next year. This would have a severe impact on Australia. Wang lists six risk factors and Mamta Badkar outlines them here. Record US house sale. The most expensive house sale in US history just closed. It’s a mansion in the Hamptons with a lake, and it went for $US147 million to hedge fund manager Barry Rosenstein. Big end of town. The annual Ira Sohn investment conference is underway in New York, where we’re getting presentations from a lot of the major investment managers. Jeff Gundlach thinks there’s a drop coming in the oil price http://www.businessinsider.com.au/stocks-rise-heres-what-you-need-to-know-2014-5 while Bill Ackman, in a 110-slide presentation, outlined why he’s long the infamous Fannie Mae. He thinks the stock could soar above $23 and up to $47; it closed at $4.10 overnight. Startup city. Annual technology conference CeBIT is underway in Sydney, with a host of Australian start-ups on display and talking to potential investors in the wings. We’ve picked out 10 of the best. Education protest. Student protesters forced ABC’s Q&amp;A off the air last night with a protest about education funding. At least one of the protesters is a serial fringe-case activist. Host Tony Jones only half-joked at the end of the show that they’d be vetting the audience more carefully in future. Industry dating. A new dating app in the US allows you to match with other people using your LinkedIn profile. It’s cheesily titled LinkedUp! and when you invite five friends you get to request matches from a particular industry. Liverpool collapse. Liverpool’s hopes of winning the Premier League have been crushed by a spectacular collapse in the final minutes of their league fixture against Crystal Palace this morning. The Reds were 3-0 up with 11 minutes to play, but Palace levelled by full time. Liverpool players were inconsolable after the game. Liverpool now need Manchester City to lose one of their final two fixtures to be in with a chance of the title. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Everyone we've talked to seems genuinely shocked by the departure of one of SAP's brightest stars, Vishal Sikka, the company's executive board member for products and innovation. Why did he leave? Two things were going on, sources tell us: SAP declined comment. But this is the picture we've gotten, according to people who knew him, blog posts about him, written accounts from other publications, and current and former SAP employees we talked to: The situation happened quickly, probably within the past couple of days. Otherwise, Sikka would have resigned after the company's major annual customer conference, dubbed "Sapphire," which happens next month in Orlando, a source tells us. Sikka is described as "a very nice man," as well as a brilliant engineer, mathematician and visionary, by those who knew him. There was no beef with soon-to-be sole CEO Bill McDermott. They got along well. However, there was some friction between him and McDermott's co-CEO, Jim Hagemann Snabe, sources told us. The most powerful person in the company is, and continues to be, founder Hasso Plattner. Plattner liked and backed Sikka. With that backing Sikka's power grew within the company. Sikka is based in Palo Alto, Calif., and helped pull more tech development to the American side of the company. Plattner pressured the board to move faster, be more innovative, implement changes quicker. In February, when SAP opened an innovation center in Germany, Plattner said publicly he wanted to change SAP's slow image. "We are not out-of-the-box jumpers," he said. A source told us, "Vishal was positioned — forcefully — as Hasso [Plattner]'s weapon against the old-school SAP." But European board members, customers, and big investors were concerned about how American SAP was becoming, especially after McDermott, another American, becomes CEO, sources told us.  SAP is a company managed by committee, with power resting more heavily with its leadership boards than with its CEO, sources say. SAP sources told us that Sikka had hopes of becoming co-CEO with McDermott when Snabe left, or some other elevated position. But the board had already decided this wasn't going to happen. McDermott will become sole CEO on May 21, at the annual shareholder's meeting. Snabe will stay on as a member of the supervisory board. The question then became: would Sikka be happy with his role under McDermott, as McDermott put his own team in place? Even though McDermott liked him, he couldn't elevate him following the board's decision to go with a sole CEO. German magazine DAS E-3 recently published a critical article about SAP, Sikka, and the internal German-American struggle. Last week, after the article was published, Sikka wrote a personal blog post, not sanctioned by SAP, that slammed the E3 article and its writer. He called the story "the fabrications of a gossip-monger," and praised Plattner as his inspiration. Now, McDermott is clearly trying to build bridges with the Germans. When Sikka resigned, McDermott promoted a longtime German SAP executive Bernd Leukert to the top executive leadership board, in Sikka's place. There's no doubt that Sikka will land on his feet. He's well-respected among the Valley elite. If this move signifies a new vision for SAP, no doubt CEO Bill McDermott will talk more about it in June. FREE AppDownload
ReutersThe question of whether the yuan could challenge the dollar as the world’s dominant reserve currency is not exactly a new one. China’s emergence as the world’s largest trading nation, coupled with ballooning U.S. public debt, has only served to increase the frequency of its asking. But the recent performance of both the Chinese economy and its currency have put a damper on that talk of late: amid slowing economic growth and its own increasing debt, the yuan has slid 3.2 percent against the dollar so far this year. But economic data suggest the yuan is about to turn the corner and strengthen over the next few months. In which case, the question would once again return to the fore. The currency, also known as the renminbi, fell to 6.2443 against the dollar on Monday from 6.0517 at the start of 2014. While its depreciation is at least in part due to concerns over economic growth, it also appears to be the result of direct intervention by Chinese policymakers. The People’s Bank of China has been driving down the yuan in a bid to deter short-term speculation by investors betting that it would continue rising, according to Credit Suisse. “The moves have been engineered by the central bank to break the ‘one-way focus’ on appreciation,” says Dong Tao, Credit Suisse’s China economist. “The central bank has had great success in teaching speculators a lesson.” U.S. officials see additional motives, and have suggested that the Asian giant is weakening its currency in order to bolster exports. In an April 15 report to Congress, the U.S. Treasury called on China to make good on its promise to relinquish the currency to market forces. “Recent developments in the renminbi exchange rate would raise particularly serious concerns if they presage renewed resistance to currency appreciation and a retreat from China’s announced policy of reducing intervention and allowing the exchange rate to reflect market forces,” the report said. Still, such concerns may be misplaced. According to Credit Suisse, Beijing is unlikely to allow the yuan to keep falling because it can’t afford the capital flight that might occur if it weakens too much. Positive trade and current account data also point to a turnaround. An unexpectedly large drop in Chinese imports and exports in March generated a trade surplus of $7.7 billion, the strongest for that month since 2009. And the overall current account surplus, which includes trade data plus net cash transfers, was $7.2 billion for the first quarter. “The persistence of China’s large trade and overall balance of payments surplus is the core driver of our constructive view on the currency,” Credit Suisse currency analysts Ray Farris and Trang Thuy Le wrote in an April 10 report. Investors were justifiably surprised by first quarter growth of 7.4 percent, the slowest pace in a year and a half. But authorities announced moderate stimulus measures earlier this month that include tax relief and spending on housing and rail projects. And last week, they revealed plans to start building a number of large energy projects including hydropower and nuclear plants. The likely outcome of those moves is that the disappointing first quarter GDP figure will be the low point for the year, Credit Suisse says. “The government has begun to take action to stabilize growth,” Farris and Le wrote. “This would work to improve sentiment and reduce policy risk over the next several months.” Of course, exports and growth could still continue to deteriorate in April, which would make it difficult for the central bank to allow the currency to strengthen immediately. Even in that case, Credit Suisse argues, policymakers will eventually allow for a rebound, giving investors reason to be bullish on the yuan in the medium term. Credit Suisse expects the yuan to rise to 6.10 against the dollar over the next three months and to 6.07 over the next 12. At which point the whole reserve currency conversation would start anew. FREE AppDownload
Adriana Lima is a Victoria's Secret Angel who's been modeling for 17 years. She's also a mother of two and is one of the world's highest-paid models. Despite all her accomplishments, Adriana Lima is still going strong in the modeling game. So, how does she stay in such ridiculous shape? Produced by Will Wei and Kevin Smith. Originally published in September 2013. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Bloomberg TVJim Grant"Gazprom is by acclimation the world’s worst company managed by the worst kleptocrats ever assembled on one continent." Most people would agree with that characterization of the Russian energy behemoth. Interestingly, that quote comes from Jim Grant, who is bullish on the stock. In an interview with Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle from the Sohn Investment Conference, Grant said "the beginning, middle and end of the bull case on Gazprom is that good things happen to cheap stocks." Here's Grant spiel courtesy of Bloomberg TV: Yeah. So this is – first of all, it’s a huge company. Revenues of $150 billion. The market cap is immense. They earn a lot of money even after, as my friend (inaudible) even after stealing they earn a lot of money. They pay a 5 percent dividend. As recently as 2006, the stock changed hands at 10 times the estimated earnings. So now it’s at 2.5. And why is that? Well, because people know that there will be even more extreme and costly sanctions imposed on Russia. They know that something terrible is going to happen with the Ukraine election in a couple of weeks. And well it might. There is certitude about outcomes that is notable given that so few people saw the current set of outcomes approaching some months ago. So in addition to the epigram that good things happen to cheap stocks, I will offer this epigram. This too will pass. This is not to say everyone should just throw Gazprom into their portfolios. "Here’s a test of suitability for this investment," said Grant. "You can’t care about the time." "Interest payments are covered by operating cash flow about 40 times over," he added. "This is – this is a terrifically solid balance sheet. So there’s not a clock ticking on the business by dint – by dint of debt. And we know I think that solvent businesses don’t trade at 2.5 times yielding 5 percent forever. So in the fullness of time is what – is my – is my horizon." In many ways, Grant's thesis fits Warren Buffett's rule: "Be fearful when others are greedy and greedy only when others are fearful." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz William Ackman, founder and CEO of hedge fund Pershing Square Capital Management, speaks at the Sohn Investment Conference in New York, May 5, 2014.Hedge fund manager Bill Ackman made his uberbullish case on Fannie Mae through a 110-slide presentation at the Sohn Investment Conference in NYC today. Fannie Mae is one of the infamous GSEs that needed a huge bailout during the financial crisis due to its role in funding the housing market. It has become profitable again, though it remits its payments back to the government to repay the bailout. A lot of hedge funders are long the stock, betting that ultimately the profits will go back to shareholders and that the government will leave Fannie (and it's sibling Freddie Mac) as is, in their original state. He characterized the investment as "owning a royalty on every mortgage." According to Bloomberg, Ackman said Fannie could be worth $23 to $47 per share. The stock closed at $4.10 today. "There is no viable alternative," said Ackman, noting the firm's critical position in the U.S. mortgage finance market. Ackman is the largest hedge fund shareholder in Fannie with a roughly 10% stake in the company. FREE AppDownload
Jason Kempen for Getty Images/Craig F. Walker for the Denver PostSteve Ells and Monty Moran.Chipotle's business is booming, and the burrito chain's co-CEOs are being paid handsomely for it.  Steve Ells and Monty Moran made a combined $58 million last year, according to James Covert at The New York Post.  Covert writes that proxy advisory firm ISS wants shareholders to vote against the compensation package at the May 15 annual meeting.  "A combined $58 million in CEO pay for a fast food company isn’t just excessive — it’s indefensible," New York City Comptroller Scott Stringer told the Post.  In comparison, Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein made about $23 million.  Chipotle said it was open to change.  "If further feedback from long-term investors suggests that changes are needed the compensation committee will no doubt consider making them," Chipotle told Covert.  Chipotle recently announced it is raising prices in the wake of increased commodity costs. The price of avocados, used to make Chipotle's famous guacamole, as well as beef, are particularly high.  Chipotle pays workers an average of $8.57 an hour according to Glassdoor, more than Taco Bell, Chick-fil-A, McDonald's, Wendy's, or Burger King.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithDo the market exchange rates for different currencies reflect the actual relative values of those currencies? This question is the basis for analyzing purchasing power parity, which tries to measure relative purchasing power, or the amount of goods and services that can be bought in different countries for the same amount of currency traded at market exchange rates. A classic illustration of this concept is The Economist's famous Big Mac Index. This compares the prices of a Big Mac in different countries using market exchange rates. By the Big Mac Index, the yen is undervalued about 36%, since a Big Mac costs the market exchange equivalent of $2.97, compared to the U.S. baseline of $4.62. The Council on Foreign Relations, however, thinks the Big Mac is not the right product to use to measure differences in purchasing power. The reason The Economist uses the price of a Big Mac is that it is a ubiquitous and uniform item. There are McDonalds restaurants all around the world, and a Big Mac in Beijing is about the same as a Big Mac in Brooklyn. The Council on Foreign Relations, however, noticed a very important problem with using Big Macs in this way: they are not generally purchased by consumers and then moved across country lines. It would make very little sense for an American to take a flight to Hungary to take advantage of the 17% discount on a cheeseburger. So, CFR constructed a similar ranking, based on a common and uniform item that people could reasonably take overseas: the iPad Mini. Their reasoning is that the iPad is a product that can be more realistically viewed as being bought and sold in a truly global marketplace. Even though a Big Mac is the same everywhere, eating dinner out has a fundamentally local element to it. On the other hand, an incredibly popular piece of consumer electronics like the iPad Mini is free from that local factor, and thus might be a better proxy for globalized commerce in general. Here's the CFR's most recent iPad Mini index: Council on Foreign Relations Geo-Graphics And here's The Economist's Big Mac Index: The Economist The biggest difference by far between the two charts is that the price deviations are much smaller for the iPad index than for the Big Mac index, as we would expect from the different nature of the two goods. As CFR points out, a lot of European countries are somewhat overvalued relative to the dollar by the iPad Mini metric. Meanwhile, China, where the valuation of the yuan is a frequent subject of debate in the U.S., is fairly close to being properly valued. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike Segar Closely followed fund manager David Einhorn, who runs Greenlight Capital, presented one of the short positions from his "bubble basket."  In his latest investor letter, he wrote about how a bunch of "cool kid" stocks made him think we're seeing the second tech bubble in 15 years. He's short a number of these companies in what he's calling the "bubble basket."  He's going to illustrate his bubble basket by talking about one company and not disclosing the others.  His short is AthenaHealth. Shares of the stock have fallen more than 7.7% in the after-hours session. He said it's an excellent company and has a great CEO. He doesn't want it to fail. He just thinks it's over-priced. He thinks this stock can fall 80%.  He also said the company isn't positioned to succeed the way the bulls hope.  For more coverage, check out our live blog » FREE AppDownload
Bing MapsThe top of the U.S. luxury market has been on a tear.  Last month, a Greenwich, Connecticut, estate sold for $120 million, making it one of the most expensive residential properties ever sold in the U.S.  Then over the weekend, that record was smashed by the sale of a $147 million compound on Further Lane in East Hampton to hedge fund manager Barry Rosenstein. See how all these recent sales stack up. FREE AppDownload
If the unemployment rate drops and so, too, does the labor force, then the decline in the unemployment rate might not be a signal of a strengthening labor market. Rather, under these circumstances, the decline in the unemployment rate might reflect potential workers becoming discouraged over the lack of employment opportunities and, therefore, dropping out of the labor force. I emphasize “might” because a decline in the labor force does not always reflect an increase in so-called discouraged workers. And, in fact — well, fact may be too strong a word, but according to data contained in the April Household Employment Survey — the number of people not in the labor force in April but who did want a job changed by a big fat ZERO. But the mainstream media, financial or general, did not report this. Rather, they reported that the 0.4 point decline in the April unemployment rate was suspect because labor force dropped by 806 thousand, implying that thousands must have exited the labor force because of poor job prospects. When the “highlights” of the monthly employment report are first reported on CNBC and Bloomberg TV, complete with the six frames of “experts”, and a report like April’s is released with a decline in both the unemployment rate and the labor force, the first thing I look at in Table A-1, Employment Status of the Civilian Population, of the Household Employment Survey is the line “Persons who currently want a job”, which is a subcategory of the line above it, “Not in the labor force”. As I mentioned in the preceding paragraph, the number of people who were not in the labor force in April but who also currently wanted a job changed by zero from March. So, although a one-month’s decline in the labor force of 806 thousand is, indeed, an anomaly, another datum obtained from the same survey indicates that this decline in the labor force was not due to potential workers dropping out because of poor job prospects. The second thing I look at after a monthly employment report similar to April’s is released is Table A-15 in the Household Employment Survey, “Alternative Measures of Labor Underutilization”. Specifically, I look at the U-5 measure of measure of the unemployment rate, “Total Unemployed plus Marginally Attached Workers as a percent of the Civilian Labor Force plus All Marginally Attached Workers”. (Persons marginally attached to the labor force are those who currently are neither working nor looking for work but indicate that they want and are available for a job and have looked for work sometime in the past 12 months. Discouraged workers, a subset of the marginally attached, have given a job-market related reason for not currently looking for work.) So, the U-5 unemployment rate definition accounts for those unemployed potential workers who currently desire a job but have stopped looking for employment. If the “headline” unemployment rate, technically, the U-3 definition in Table A-15, declines and the U-5 unemployment rate declines by a similar magnitude, then one can deduce that the decline in the headline unemployment rate was not due to potential workers dropping out of the labor force because of a lack of employment opportunities. The chart below shows the month-to-month change in the labor force along with the month-to-month changes in the headline unemployment rate and the U-5 definition of the unemployment rate. In April, the 806 thousand person decline in the labor force was accompanied by a 0.4 point decline in both the headline and U-5 unemployment rates. Because the U-5 unemployment rate includes those who have dropped out of the labor force but who currently do desire to work and because this measure of the unemployment rate declined by the same magnitude as the headline measure, we cannot infer that the 0.4 decline in the headline unemployment rate was somehow “tainted” by people dropping out of the labor force due to bleak job prospects, as many in the media did infer. The Econtrarian In December 2013, the labor force dropped by 347 thousand, accompanied by a 0.3 decline in the headline unemployment rate and only a 0.1 point decline in the U-5 unemployment rate. Thus, in December 2013 in contrast to April 2014, I would surmise that part of the decline in the headline unemployment rate was related to people who wanted to work dropping out of the labor force in December. In the 12 months ended April 2014, there has been a 0.5 point net decline in the labor participation rate, the civilian labor force as a percent of the civilian noninstitutional population. In these same 12 months, there has been a 1.2 point net decline in the headline unemployment rate. Given the decline in the participation rate, a statistic that the media has been trained to focus on when interpreting a decline in the headline unemployment rate, can we conclude that the decline in the headline unemployment rate overstates the improvement in labor market conditions because potential workers are choosing not to “participate” in the hunt for jobs due to weak job prospects? No, because in these same 12 months there has been a 1.3 point decline in the U-5 unemployment rate, which accounts for labor force dropouts due to weak job prospects. It remains a mystery as to why in April the labor force plunged by 806 thousand and why the labor participation rate fell by 0.4 points. Looking at changes in the participation rate by age categories, it is revealed that the largest April declines were concentrated in the 16-to-24 year old cohort. Perhaps a light when on in the brains of our youth, alerting them to the value of education and inducing them to stay in or go back to school. I don’t know. But what I do know from the data in other parts of the Household Employment Situation Survey is that the bulk of the declines in the April labor force and participation rate was not due to people suddenly deciding to sit on their couches and eat Cheetos all day because job prospects were so bleak in April. Perhaps I am being too critical of the media for not being more diligent in analyzing the monthly employment data. After all, I do not recall any economist interviewed by the mainstream media mentioning that the U-5 unemployment rate also fell by 0.4 points in April, thereby ruling out the notion that the headline unemployment rate fell because workers dropped out of the labor force because they were so disheartened by weak job prospects. If the “experts” the media turn to for analysis do not examine and/or understand the relevant sections of the employment reports, how can I really expect the media to accurately report the economic news? FREE AppDownload
60 MinutesHundreds of investors are gathering at Lincoln Center in Midtown Manhattan for one of the most stacked hedge fund conferences of the year, the 19th annual Sohn Investment Conference.  For years Sohn has been  a forum for investors to share some of their biggest ideas, sometimes they're even new ideas. Most of the time, those ideas move markets. Already, Bond God Jeff Gundlach has said that it's time to short homebuilders, and Philippe Laffont presented his long case for Liberty Global. Larry Robbins of Glenview, who crushed it in 2013, is bullish on HMOs. He also likes Monsanto as a long play. We've got notes on all of that below. So follow along with us, as Business Insider will be live blogging the event throughout the afternoon, so check back for updates.  Check out the included the schedule below: 12:00:    Opening remarks: Douglas Hirsch 12:05:    Novogratz 12:20:    Shumway 12:35:    Gundlach 12:50:    Dan Ariely 1:05:      Laffont Intermission 2:05:      Robbins 2:20:      Schreiber 2:35:      Elana Simon 2:50:      Grant 3:05:      Ackman Intermission 4:10:      P Tudor Jones 4:25:      Sohn Investment Contest 4:40:      Mariko Gordon 4:55:      Einhorn Cocktail Reception   FREE AppDownload
Policy Horizons Canada worked with futurist and data visualizer Michell Zappa of Envisioning to produce a report called MetaScan 3: Emerging Technologies and accompanying infographics. We are reproducing the summary for emerging agriculture technologies. www.pbslearningmedia.orgBelow are technologies related to agricultural and natural manufacturing under four key areas of accelerating change: Sensors, Food, Automation and Engineering. Sensors help agriculture by enabling real-time traceability and diagnosis of crop, livestock and farm machine states. Food may benefit directly from genetic tailoring and potentially from producing meat directly in a lab. Automation will help agriculture via large-scale robotic and microrobots to check and maintain crops at the plant level. Engineering involves technologies that extend the reach of agriculture to new means, new places and new areas of the economy. Of particular interest will be synthetic biology, which allows efficiently reprogramming unicellular life to make fuels, byproducts accessible from organic chemistry and smart devices. REUTERS/Mike StoneSkeptical cattle doesn't want to be tracked. We have included predictions based on consultation with experts of when each technology will be scientifically viable (the kind of stuff that Google, governments, and universities develop), mainstream (when VCs and startups widely invest in it), and financially viable (when the technology is generally available on Kickstarter). Air &amp; soil sensors: Fundamental additions to the automated farm, these sensors would enable a real time understanding of current farm, forest or body of water conditions. Scientifically viable in 2013; mainstream and financially viable in 2015. Equipment telematics: Allows mechanical devices such as tractors to warn mechanics that a failure is likely to occur soon. Intra-tractor communication can be used as a rudimentary "farm swarm" platform. Scientifically viable in 2013; mainstream in 2016; and financially viable in 2017. Livestock biometrics: Collars with GPS, RFID and biometrics can automatically identify and relay vital information about the livestock in real time. Scientifically viable in 2017; mainstream and financially viable in 2020. Crop sensors: Instead of prescribing field fertilization before application, high-resolution crop sensors inform application equipment of correct amounts needed. Optical sensors or drones are able to identify crop health across the field (for example, by using infra-red light). Scientifically viable in 2015; mainstream in 2018; and financially viable in 2019. Infrastructural health sensors: Can be used for monitoring vibrations and material conditions in buildings, bridges, factories, farms and other infrastructure. Coupled with an intelligent network, such sensors could feed crucial information back to maintenance crews or robots. Scientifically viable in 2021; mainstream in 2025; and financially viable in 2027. Genetically designed food: The creation of entirely new strains of food animals and plants in order to better address biological and physiological needs. A departure from genetically modified food, genetically designed food would be engineered from the ground up. Scientifically viable in 2016; mainstream in 2021; and financially viable in 2022. In vitro meat: Also known as cultured meat or tubesteak, it is a flesh product that has never been part of a complete, living animal. Several current research projects are growing in vitro meat experimentally, although no meat has yet been produced for public consumption. Scientifically viable in 2017; mainstream in 2024; and financially viable in 2027. Variable rate swath control: Building on existing geolocation technologies, future swath control could save on seed, minerals, fertilizer and herbicides by reducing overlapping inputs. By pre-computing the shape of the field where the inputs are to be used, and by understanding the relative productivity of different areas of the field, tractors or agbots can procedurally apply inputs at variable rates throughout the field. Scientifically viable in 2013; mainstream in 2014; and financially viable in 2016. Rapid iteration selective breeding: The next generation of selective breeding where the end-result is analyzed quantitatively and improvements are suggested algorithmically. Scientifically viable in 2014; mainstream and financially viable in 2017. Agricultural robots: Also known as agbots, these are used to automate agricultural processes, such as harvesting, fruit picking, ploughing, soil maintenance, weeding, planting, irrigation, etc. Scientifically viable in 2018; mainstream in 2020; and financially viable in 2021. Precision agriculture: Farming management based on observing (and responding to) intra-field variations. With satellite imagery and advanced sensors, farmers can optimize returns on inputs while preserving resources at ever larger scales. Further understanding of crop variability, geolocated weather data and precise sensors should allow improved automated decision-making and complementary planting techniques. Scientifically viable in 2019; mainstream in 2023; and financially viable in 2024. Robotic farm swarms: The hypothetical combination of dozens or hundreds of agricultural robots with thousands of microscopic sensors, which together would monitor, predict, cultivate and extract crops from the land with practically no human intervention. Small-scale implementations are already on the horizon. Scientifically viable in 2023; mainstream and financially viable in 2026. Closed ecological systems: Ecosystems that do not rely on matter exchange outside the system. Such closed ecosystems would theoretically transform waste products into oxygen, food and water in order to support life-forms inhabiting the system. Such systems already exist in small scales, but existing technological limitations prevent them from scaling. Scientifically viable in 2015; mainstream in 2020; and financially viable in 2021. Synthetic biology: Synthetic biology is about programming biology using standardized parts as one programs computers using standardized libraries today. Includes the broad redefinition and expansion of biotechnology, with the ultimate goals of being able to design, build and remediate engineered biological systems that process information, manipulate chemicals, fabricate materials and structures, produce energy, provide food, and maintain and enhance human health and our environment. Scientifically viable in 2013; mainstream in 2023; and financially viable in 2024. Stefano Boeri ArchitettiVertical farms. Vertical farming: A natural extension of urban agriculture, vertical farms would cultivate plant or animal life within dedicated or mixed-use skyscrapers in urban settings. Using techniques similar to glass houses, vertical farms could augment natural light using energy-efficient lighting. The advantages are numerous, including year-round crop production, protection from weather, support urban food autonomy and reduced transport costs. Scientifically viable in 2023; mainstream and financially viable in 2027. FREE AppDownload
Paul Tudor Jones just presented at this year's Sohn Investment Conference, and his idea came with a serious dose of market wisdom in the midst of what he considers one of the hardest times for macro traders he's seen in his career. He made his point using Friday's stellar jobs number. As PTJ pointed out, it was some of the strongest data the U.S. has seen since 2007. It sent every signal to sell bonds. But if you would've done that, you'd be in trouble. By the end of the day bonds had rallied. "What is obvious is obviously wrong," was PTJ's takeaway. He added, "The message to all bond bears is wait until you see the whites of their eyes, before you sell fixed income,” he said. Now he looks at a bunch of different models from all over the world and tries to make connections by taking them all into consideration. "A lot of times you look at the fundamentals and they show you one hand... but it reality there are two hands." Right now the hands are saying "sometime late summer English bonds are probably a decent sale."  Get that tattooed somewhere. FREE AppDownload
Apple stock closed today at $600.96 per share. That's the first time Apple has been above $600 since October 2012. Its all-time high was $702.10, which was in September 2012. Here's the chart showing Apple stock over the last three years: CNBC FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru Hanai  Stocks climbed. Scoreboard: Dow: 16,533.98, +0.13%S&amp;P 500: 1,884.49, +0.18%NASDAQ: 4,135.87, +0.29% And now the top stories: See our full wrap of the first day of Sohn here » FREE AppDownload
    Produced by Justin Gmoser. Originally published in February 2014. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/pointnshootWhat Burger King got away with ... temporarily While McDonald's was busy angering its franchisees with the kitchen-complicating, low-demand Mighty Wings flop and letting its guard down, Burger King went right after McDonald's core products. It hit McDonald's with "diet" French fries in response to McDonald's apple slices, sucker punched it with a Big King sandwich in response to the Big Mac, head butted it with a BK BBQ rib sandwich in response to the McRib, and uppercut it with a spicy chicken sandwich in response to a similar one at McDonald's. Why take risks with whole new products when McDonald's is barely marketing its core successes? Restaurants need to innovate to keep their patrons excited and intrigued, but Burger King has figured out that the best course of action is to try new sandwiches that are extensions of its already successful and popular ones -- or at least those of competitors like McDonald's.The revelation This plan has paid off. While both Burger King and McDonald's complained that severe winter weather hurt their same-store sales, Burger King has been growing at a faster pace. Burger King posted slightly positive results for the fourth quarter of last year and the first quarter of this year, but McDonald's showed declines of 1.4% and 1.7%, respectively. Burger King credits its success, which included a 2% gain in global same-store sales, to a "commitment to launching fewer, more impactful products and simplifying in-restaurant." Funny. That's exactly what critics have been complaining about in regard to McDonald's for quite some time now. Customers, shareholders, franchisees, and people on the back of way-too-long drive-through lines have been all in agreement. Enough is enough It looks like McDonald's may have finally gotten the message, woke up, and smelled its own coffee. Don Thompson, CEO of McDonald's, stated on the latest conference call: We're more effectively balancing our focus on the core menu including the Big Mac, Egg McMuffin and our world famous fries. Our core products are familiar favorites for our customers. They truly represent McDonald's to all of our customers and at about 40% of total sales, they are an incredible business asset for us that requires a constant drumbeat of communication.  Well duh, McDonald's. You mean it's a good idea to continue with the strategy that you have used for several decades to build yourself into a powerhouse? If McDonald's doesn't take its eye off the ball on its most popular products then Burger King won't have a chance to steal much market share. Foolish final thoughts Thompson mentioned, "Our major focus in the U.S. is right now and it's kind of a back to the basics with some enhancements in terms of our productivity and capability in the restaurants." Back to the basics. Good news for McDonald's shareholders. Not so good news for Burger King. It appears that McDonald's and Burger King are now on the same page in terms of simplicity and core menu focus. McDonald's has almost always won in a one-on-one duel against Burger King, so the Home of the Whopper may have its work cut out for it. The year of 2014 promises to be interesting for both restaurants. Find the next McDonald's of 2014 Give me five minutes and I'll show how you could own the best stock for 2014. Every year, The Motley Fool's chief investment officer hand-picks 1 stock with amazing potential. But it's not just any run-of-the-mill company. It's a stock perfectly positioned to cash in on the upcoming year's most lucrative trends. Last year his pick skyrocketed 134%. And previous top picks have gained upwards of 908%, 1,252% and 1,303%! Believe me, you don't want to miss what could be his biggest winner yet! Just click here to download your free copy of "The Motley Fool's Top Stock for 2014" today. Nickey Friedman has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends Burger King Worldwide and McDonald's. The Motley Fool owns shares of McDonald's. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
Mercatus Regarding the above chart, Keith Hall of Mercatus: Data released by the BLS on Tuesday also highlights another concerning long-term trend holding back a more robust jobs recovery. Historically, the formation of new businesses is an important source of job growth in the U.S., and job creation through business creation was as high as 2 million new jobs a quarter in 1999. But that number has been steadily declining since then, and the third quarter of 2013 saw only 1.3 million jobs created by new business formation—an improvement from the end of recession but still below pre-2008 levels. The subject of American business dynamism is one I’ve written a bit about. And as it happens, Brookings also is out with a report on the subject from Ian Hathaway and Robert Litan. This first chart from that report show that firm entry rate—or firms less than one year old as a share of all firms—fell by  nearly half in the thirty-plus years between 1978 and 2011. This second Brookings chart “illustrates that job reallocation—a broad measure of labor market churning resulting from the underlying business dynamism of firm expansions, contractions, births, and closures—has been steadily declining during the last three decades, and appears to have accelerated in the last decade or so.” Census, AEIAnd the bottom line from Hathaway and Litan: Overall, the message here is clear. Business dynamism and entrepreneurship are experiencing a troubling secular decline in the United States. Existing research and a cursory review of broad data aggregates show that the decline in dynamism hasn’t been isolated to particular industrial sectors and firm sizes. Here we demonstrated that the decline in entrepreneurship and business dynamism has been nearly universal geographically the last three decades—reaching all fifty states and all but a few metropolitan areas. Our findings stop short of demonstrating why these trends are occurring and perhaps more importantly, what can be done about it. Doing so requires a more complete knowledge about what drives dynamism, and especially entrepreneurship, than currently exists. But it is clear that these trends fit into a larger narrative of business consolidation occurring in the U.S. economy—whatever the reason, older and larger businesses are doing better relative to younger and smaller ones. Firms and individuals appear to be more risk averse too—businesses are hanging on to cash, fewer people are launching firms, and workers are less likely to switch jobs or move. They don’t offer a theory, but I do. This article originally appeared at American Enterprise Institute.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Almost everything related to business in America is either directly or indirectly financed by loans. This is why economists pay close attention to reports on consumer and industrial loans like the Federal Reserve's Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey. When commercial lending standards are easier, then you can probably expect business spending activity (that is, capital expenditures) to pick up. UBS's Maury Harris has noted that "easier lending standards are usually associated with later employment growth." Here's what the Fed's new April 2014 survey revealed about lending standards and demand: ...Regarding loans to businesses, the April survey results generally indicated that, on balance, banks eased their lending policies for commercial and industrial (C&amp;I) and commercial real estate (CRE) loans and experienced stronger demand for both types of loans over the past three months.    The survey also contained special questions that asked banks about changes in their terms on CRE loans over the past year. Banks reported easing CRE loan terms, on net, over that period. This is a bullish precursor to a pickup in capex, which Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders characterized as a sign of "animal spirits" reviving. "On balance, this report points to further re-leveraging in commercial and non-mortgage consumer debt, reinforcing the improving trend that has been seen in other credit-related reports," said TD Securities' Millan Mulraine. "[T]he buoyancy in C&amp;I lending activity is especially important as we continue to see a pick-up in business capital investment as a necessary, though not sufficient, conditions for the economic recovery to sustain the higher level of growth momentum beyond Q2." Federal Reserve FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Fred ProuserFormer Goldman Sachs partner and current Fortress Investment Group CIO Michael Novogratz says the smartest guys in the room have all turned their attention to Bitcoin. In an interview Monday with Bloomberg Television's Stephanie Ruhle at the 2014 Sohn investing conference, Novogratz explained how Bitcoin has grown to capture the imaginations of programmers from its libertarian roots: There are in best estimates somewhere 30,000 individual programmers working on Bitcoin. My college roommate lives down in Barbados. He was the smartest guy that we went to school with [Novogratz graduated from Princeton — ed.]. He full time works on derivatives of Bitcoin. So there’s this open source community where there’s huge brain power, let alone all the VC money that’s going in. And so from Marc Andreessen and his company to Benchmark… there’s lots of smart money going in. I’ve never seen a small project with more human capital going into it, and so I kind of want to bet just on that alone." Ruhle pressed him on whether Bitcoin could simply flame out. Novogratz responded by saying it would lead to the "democratization of finance."  I think you’re going to see things like peer-to-peer lending. The banks are – their biggest I think threat is the same thing that’s happened in so many other industries now happening to the finance industry, right? The Internet disintermediates large players and I think Bitcoin is just one of the threats that the finance industry the way we know it has coming against it. Fortress is sitting on $13 million-worth of bitcoins. In February, the firm became the first publicly-traded company to file Bitcoin holdings (they were listed as losses). Full clip:  Follow along with our live blog of Sohn 2014 here » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alexei Druzhinin/RIA Novosti/KremlinRussian President Vladimir Putin attends a meeting of the State Council at the Kremlin in Moscow, April 21, 2014. WASHINGTON (AP) — As the United States attempts to punish Russia for its actions in Ukraine, the Treasury Department is deploying an economic weapon that could prove more costly than sanctions: the Internal Revenue Service. This summer, the U.S. plans to start using a new law that will make it more expensive for Russian banks to do business in America. "It's a huge deal," says Mark E. Matthews, a former IRS deputy commissioner. "It would throw enormous uncertainty into the Russian banking community." Long before the Ukraine crisis, Congress approved the law in 2010 to curb tax evasion that relies on overseas accounts. Now, beginning in July, U.S. banks will be required to start withholding a 30 percent tax on certain payments to financial institutions in other countries — unless those foreign banks have agreements in place to share information about U.S. account holders with the IRS. The withholding applies mainly to investment income. Russia and dozens of other countries have been negotiating information-sharing agreements with the U.S. in an effort to spare their banks from such harsh penalties. But after Russia annexed Crimea and was seen as stoking separatist movements in eastern Ukraine, the Treasury Department quietly suspended negotiations in March. With the July 1 deadline approaching, Russian banks are now concerned that the price of investing in the United States is about to go up. The new law means that Russian banks that buy U.S. securities after July 1 will forfeit 30 percent of the interest and dividend payments. The withholding applies to stocks and bonds, including U.S. Treasuries. Some previously owned securities would be exempt from the withholding, but in general, previously owned stocks would not. Private investors who use Russian financial institutions to facilitate trades also face the withholding penalty. Those private investors could later apply to the IRS for refunds, but the inconvenience would be enormous. "It's a big problem for them," said Matthews, who is now a lawyer at Caplin &amp; Drysdale, a tax firm based in Washington. "It decreases their competitiveness and they may have capital flight elsewhere." The U.S. and Russia are significant trading partners, though not all transactions would be subject to withholding. Last year, the U.S. imported $27 billion in goods from Russia, which ranked 18th among importers to the U.S., according to the Census Bureau. The U.S. exported $11 billion in goods to Russia. The withholding would expand in 2017, if there was still no information-sharing agreement. At that point, if investors sold stocks or bonds, U.S. banks would be required to withhold a 30 percent tax on the gross proceeds from those sales. The law would also snag big global banks with subsidiaries that don't have agreements with the IRS to share information. At first the withholding could be limited to the subsidiaries. But eventually, if any part of a large global bank refused to comply with the information-sharing requirements, the entire bank would be penalized. "That keeps an institution from deciding that it's going to register its entity in Germany but not register the entity it has in Switzerland," said Denise Hintzke of Deloitte Tax. It would also provide a tremendous disincentive for large global banks to do business in countries where they can't share information with U.S. authorities. More than 50 countries have reached agreements with the U.S. to share tax information about U.S. account holders. The list includes countries famous for bank secrecy, such as Switzerland and the Cayman Islands. For Russia, the penalties could be more damaging to its economy than U.S. sanctions, said Brian L. Zimbler, managing partner of the Moscow office of Morgan Lewis, an international law firm. "If sanctions are going to be limited to certain targeted individuals and banks, where this applies to everybody in the market, yes, I think this could potentially be worse than sanctions for the Russians," Zimbler said. The 2010 law is known as FATCA, which stands for the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act. It was designed to encourage — some say force — foreign banks to share information about U.S. account holders with the IRS, making it more difficult for Americans to use overseas accounts to evade U.S. taxes. Under the law, U.S. banks that fail to withhold the tax would be liable for it themselves, a powerful incentive to comply. On Friday, the Treasury Department issued guidance saying it will give U.S. banks a temporary reprieve. As long as U.S. banks make a good-faith effort to withhold the proper tax, they won't be liable for mistakes until 2016. The goal of the law was to set up a penalty so harsh that foreign banks would have little choice but to share information with U.S. authorities, Matthews said. "Withholding is a failure of the system," Matthews said. "Withholding was just a big stick out there. No one hoped that would happen." The Treasury Department said Russian banks can still apply on their own to share information about U.S. account holders directly with the IRS. But those banks may risk violating local privacy laws by sharing such information with a foreign government. "They can't do it," Zimbler said. "Russia does have bank secrecy laws." It is a problem that banks around the world are facing. To get around the hurdle, the Treasury Department has been negotiating agreements in which foreign governments will collect the information from their banks and then share it with U.S. authorities. Russia was negotiating one of these agreements when the U.S. broke off talks. Russian banks face another hurdle: time. In June, the Treasury Department is scheduled to release a list of foreign banks that are exempt from withholding. If your bank isn't on the list, U.S. banks are required to start withholding 30 percent of your payments in July. The deadline for getting on the list was Monday, just a few weeks after the U.S. and Russia suspended negotiations. ___ Follow Stephen Ohlemacher on Twitter: http://twitter.com/stephenatap Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Wine and beer are wonderful things, and America makes and drinks a huge amount of both. But we also send a good amount of our favorite beverages overseas. Vinepair, a blog dedicated to making wine more accessible to a growing audience, put together a couple of maps showing who imported the most American beer and wine in 2013. Here's their beer export map, with more info available in Vinepair's post on the map here: Vinepair According to Vinepair, the U.S. exported beer to 107 countries in 2013. Our North American neighbors dominate the list, with Mexico importing over 40 million gallons, and Canada drinking over 23 million gallons of American beer. Here's their map for wine exports, with more info available on Vinepair here: Vinepair According to Vinepair, the U.S. sent wine to 125 countries. The UK loves American wine, importing over twice as much as any other country. 
AP Photo/M. Spencer GreenSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Over a lifetime, the average U.S. college graduate will earn at least $800,000 more than the average high school graduate, a study published Monday by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco shows. That's after accounting for the high cost of college tuition and the four years of wages lost during the time it takes to complete a typical undergraduate degree, the researchers found. "Although there are stories of people who skipped college and achieved financial success, for most Americans the path to higher future earnings involves a four-year college degree," wrote Mary Daly, the San Francisco Fed's associate director of research, and Leila Bengali, a research associate, in the latest Economic Letter from the regional Fed bank. In short, they found, "college is still worth it." A college student who pays $21,200 in yearly tuition will recoup that investment by age 38, the researchers found. About 90 percent of students at public colleges, and 20 percent of students at private colleges, pay less than that amount, they found. By retirement, that student will have earned $831,000 more than a peer who never went to college. For those students who pay the astronomical tuitions levied by top private U.S. colleges, however, the benefits may be smaller, the study suggested. "Although some colleges cost more, there is no definitive evidence that they produce far superior results for all students," they wrote, adding "... redoubling the efforts to make college more accessible would be time and money well spent." (Reporting by Ann Saphir; Editing by James Dalgleish) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons"Tiger Cub" hedge fund manager Chris Shumway spoke at the Ira Sohn Conference about the recent volatility we've seen in the high-growth, momentum stocks. He identified three things slamming the sector: 1. The Fed: Fed Chair Janet Yellen isn't providing a lot of guidance as to how rates will be managed.2. Putin: "Risks are real...Dangerous game of chicken being played on a global stage." He's afraid of a real election in Ukraine. If we have an election in Ukraine, it will be pro EU instead of pro Russia, he said.  "We are worried. We think hedging is required, this is one of the big risks in the world."3. China: Real GDP, industrial investments, exports all in decline. Shumway presented a chart called the Hammered Index, which included a basket of momentum stocks that have been hammered this year. He cited Workday and Amazon as examples.  We haven't heard much from him since he closed his Shumway Capital Partners a few years ago. The fund had managed about $8 billion at its peak. He's running a family office fund these days.  His best investment idea at the conference was long Moody's.  FREE AppDownload
Charles Platiau/ReutersEditor's note: Below is a Q&amp;A with Branko Milanovic, a former World Bank economist and a visiting professor at CUNY. Milanovic was the first person to publish a review of Thomas Piketty's "Capitalism in the 21st Century" in English last October.   This Q&amp;A went out to subscribers of our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter on Monday morning. Sign up here to get the newsletter and more of these interviews in your inbox each week. BUSINESS INSIDER: What seem to you to be the most important critiques of Piketty’s thesis? BRANKO MILANOVIC: Leaving aside the critiques of Piketty’s proposal for global taxation of capital (which are easy to make), the most serious critiques, in my opinion, are two: whether the rate of return on capital will remain higher than the growth rate of the economy despite a very large increase in the capital/income and capital/labor ratios, and Piketty’s lack of attention to the rise of China, India and other emerging market economies that can, in my opinion, keep the global rate of growth at a rather high level for a century or so. BI: Are there any misconceptions about his findings that have started floating up that need to be nipped? BM: I believe that some of the left-wing critiques that question the definition of capital used by Piketty are misplaced. To me his definition that includes housing together with the “productive capital” makes lots of sense. Piketty clearly says that he treats all forms of assets that yield an explicit or implicit income (owner-occupied housing yields an implicit income) as capital. That’s both sensible and simple. So I do not see the point in the critiques. Similarly, the right-wing critique that Piketty’s ideas are driven by some kind of distaste for capitalism, or envy towards the rich, are, to be a bit harsh, pure nonsense. It is also meaningless to defend high incomes by invoking supposed high productivity of extremely well-paid executives or financiers, or to argue that their spending is needed to maintain aggregate demand. Surely, if maintaining high aggregate demand were a key objective, redistribution in favor of those who are poorer would be good for it because the poor spend a higher percentage of their income than the rich. BI: We've since been inundated with Piketty reviews. Whose have you been most impressed by? There were many excellent reviews. The ones I remember in particular were reviews by Robert Solow in The New Republic http://www.newrepublic.com/article/117429/capital-twenty-first-century-thomas-piketty-reviewed, Paul Krugman on his blog and The New York Review of Books http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2014/may/08/thomas-piketty-new-gilded-age/, Robert Skidelsky in the Prospect Magazine http://www.prospectmagazine.co.uk/magazine/book-review-capital-in-21-century-thomas-piketty/#.U2bsBCiHhac.   I also liked Doug Henwood’s review published on Book Forum http://www.bookforum.com/inprint/021_01/12987.  A very nice review and discussion of some of Piketty’s points is by Brad DeLong.  http://equitablegrowth.org/2014/04/12/notes-finger-exercises-thomas-pikettys-capital-twenty-first-century-honest-broker-week-april-12-2014/ BI: You appear to have been the first to review Piketty in English. How did that come about? Was there much competition to capture that byline? BM: I knew that his book was about to be published and when I was in Brussels last September, I remembered that, went to a bookstore and bought Piketty’s book just a couple of days after it came out in Paris. It was very prominently displayed in the bookstore. Piketty was already then very well known economist, many of the ideas discussed in the book were in some ways presented by him earlier, and there was quite a lot of anticipation “in the air.” I read the book very quickly, probably in less than 3 weeks. It was an extremely impressive piece of work; it went beyond the already high expectation that I had. There was no doubt in my mind that it is one key books of the last several decades. So I wrote the review very quickly. The first draft was ready I think by mid-October. There was not much competition because I read the book so early, in French, and the timeliness of my review “competed” with French reviews of his book, not with American. However, having said all of that I must confess that I did not expect that the reception of the book and his ideas would be so overwhelming. I do not think Piketty himself expected it.  I don’t think that anyone could have imagined that within a month of its publication in the United States the book would be No. 1 of all books on Amazon.  BI: For the true Piketty devotee, what's the next work of his — translated or not — that they should seek out? BM: I don’t know what would be his next book. But it seems to me that his work will first extend in a policy area toward implementation of some form of international cooperation regarding taxation of capital, second, expand the already formidable database on top incomes that Piketty and his coauthors have created, and thirdly, do research on new topics like fiscal evasion. True worldwide inequality may be much greater than what we currently believe if we were able to account for hidden wealth. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS / Jessica RinaldiJeffrey GundlachBond god Jeffrey Gundlach, the CEO of DoubleLine Capital, is bearish on single-family homes.  Gundlach said single-family housing is "over-believed and over-rated." His trade is to short XHB Homebuilders ETF.  It's trading down about 1.3% today.  During his presentation, Gundlach highlighted a bunch of housing data points. "We seem to be on the cusp of something of a change with existing home sales now negative," he said. He pointed out that new home sales also falling.  He said that the bulls use affordability for their argument. However, Gundlach believes that affordability is "bleak."  Gundlach said that young people were scared by the housing crisis, so they're not buying homes. Instead, they're renting because that's much more appealing.  He doesn't see homeownership rates rebounding any time soon.  FREE AppDownload
Google FinanceThe stock markets opened and traded in the red earlier today, but have climbed all the way back into the green. At its low of the day, the Dow was down by 132 points. Earlier, we learned that the ISM non-manufacturing index climbed to a six-month high of 55.2 in April. "In our mind, any reading above 55 is a good one that bodes well for a continued expansion of the economy," said Chris Rupkey of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi. "The outlook cannot be questioned and the downside risks are minimal. Normal business risk taken on in a growing economy." While most ISM sub-indices climbed, the employment index fell noticeably to 51.3 from 53.6. "If sustained at this level, the index would be consistent with private payroll growth trending at only 130K or so," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson. "We hope this weakness is a hangover from the winter - before the weather hit, the index was consistently pointing to 200K-plus gains - but we can't yet be sure." Ultimately, the full picture remains a positive one. "At its new level, the ISM non-manufacturing index is consistent with GDP growth of about 2.5% annualised, but we wouldn't be surprised to see it strengthen further over the next few months and we currently expect that second-quarter GDP growth will be as high as 3.5%," said Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth. FREE AppDownload
Bing MapsA Hamptons property has just taken the title of "most expensive home ever sold in the U.S." The 18-acre expanse in East Hampton just sold for $147 million to hedge-fund manager Barry Rosenstein of Jana Partners, according to Curbed Hamptons. Rosenstein's new neighbors on exclusive Further Lane include Jerry Seinfeld, hedge-fund manager Jim Chanos, and art dealer Larry Gagosian.  The home was previously owned by the late Christopher H. Browne, the managing director of a New York investment firm who bought it in the late 1990s, according to a 2007 profile in The New York Times. Browne and his partner of 10 years, architect Andrew Gordon, spent much of their time renovating and landscaping the property. According to Page Six, when Browne died of a heart attack in 2009 in Florida, he left his entire estate to Gordon. However, legal disputes between Gordon’s and Browne’s families raged on until 2012, when Gordon — then dying of cancer — was allowed via a secret settlement to live out the rest of his life in the home he had shared with Browne. When Gordon passed away this past fall, Browne’s family began quietly shopping around the mansion, according to Page Six. Ultimately, they sold the estate without using a broker, avoiding some serious fees and commissions (which is also why there are no listing photos of the property).  Sources told The New York Post that brokers in the area were “crestfallen” and “furious” that no broker was hired, with one broker saying that the Browne family “closed ranks. It was all very hush-hush.” The sale easily beat out Connecticut’s 50-acre Copper Beach farm, which sold a month ago for $120 million, and the $132.5 million working Montana Ranch bought by Rams owner Stan Kroenke in 2012. FREE AppDownload
SAP announced some surprising news Sunday afternoon: the man who invented the company's game-changing HANA database is out. Effective immediately, Vishal Sikka has left the company. Sikka, who joined the company in 2002, was part of SAP founder Hasso Plattner's brain-trust. In recent years, he one of the company's biggest stars after he led the team that created HANA. He helped push HANA into becoming SAP's most exciting new product, signing on more than 3,200 SAP HANA customers, the company says. SAP was funding startups building apps on top of HANA with more than 1,200 startups from 57 countries building apps on HANA. So far, there over 60 apps available, SAP says. The company even announced plans to open a bunch of cafes worldwide named HANA, where startups could hang out, drink coffee, and interact with each other through 24/7 videoconferencing. The first one is scheduled to open in Palo Alto. The move comes days before American, Bill McDermott, takes over as sole CEO as the company on May 21 after co-CEO with Jim Hagemann Snabe leaves the company. McDermott and Hagemann have shared the CEO role for four years. Since 2011, the launch of HANA, Sikka had increasingly become the face of SAP. For instance, in February, when SAP opened a stunning new "innovation center" in Germany, SAP's home country, it was Sikka who spoke alongside Plattner at the event, sharing a vision for the future of tech, SAP and HANA's starring role in both. But SAP has more pressing problems than developing HANA. The enterprise software business is undergoing a major transformation now, where companies are no longer buying and installing software. They are renting it as a service over the cloud. SAP has spent billions to acquire a cloud business, including buying SuccessFactors for $3.4 billion in 2011 and Ariba for $4.3 billion in 2012. Now it needs to convert its bread-and-butter financial apps into cloud versions and woo customers to switch instead of moving to cloud competitors like Salesforce.com, WorkDay, or startups like Zuora and Anaplan. All the big enterprise software companies, including Oracle and Microsoft, are in the same transition. SAP had originally elevated SuccessFactors founder Lars Dalgaard and Ariba CEO Bob Calderoni to its managing board. But Dalgaard left SAP in 2013 and Calderoni left in January. With the exit of Sikka, McDermot has reshuffled executives, promoting three long-time SAP execs into top leadership: Robert Enslin, Bernd Leukert and Helen Arnold. Arnold is taking over as CIO for the company and lead the HANA database. She will become the one-and-only woman on SAP's Global Managing Board. Last month, SAP reported a first-quarter that narrowly missed analysts’ estimates with sales of cloud on the rise 32% o 221 million euros but sales of new software licenses, down 5.2 percent to 623 million euros. FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Charles PlatiauEconomics students from 19 countries have joined forces to call for an overhaul of the way their subject is taught, saying the dominance of narrow free-market theories at top universities harms the world's ability to confront challenges such as financial stability and climate change. In the first global protest against mainstream economic teaching, the International Student Initiative for Pluralist Economics (ISIPE) argues in a letter to the Guardian that economics courses are failing wider society when they ignore evidence from other disciplines. The students, who have formed 41 protest groups in universities from Britain and the US to Brazil and Russia, say research and teaching in economics departments is too narrowly focused and more effort should be made to broaden the curriculum. They want courses to include analysis of the financial crash that so many economists failed to see coming, and say the discipline has become divorced from the real world. "The lack of intellectual diversity does not only restrain education and research. It limits our ability to contend with the multidimensional challenges of the 21st century – from financial stability to food security and climate change," they say in their manifesto. "The real world should be brought back into the classroom, as well as debate and a pluralism of theories and methods. This will help renew the discipline and ultimately create a space in which solutions to society's problems can be generated." The move follows a series of protests in the UK led by students in Manchester, Cambridge and London against academics who have been accused of acting as cheerleaders for the market-financial models that helped push the global financial system into the crisis. Economics undergraduates at the University of Manchester, who formed the Post-Crash Economics Society, recently issued their own manifesto for reform with the endorsement of the Bank of England's incoming chief economist, Andy Haldane. Haldane, who is currently director of financial stability, said economists had forgotten the links between their subject and other social science disciplines, which can give a broader and more accurate picture of how an economy works. He said: "The crisis has laid bare the latent inadequacies of economic models. These models have failed to make sense of the sorts of extreme macro-economic events, such as crises, recessions and depressions, which matter most to society." In the decade before the 2008 crash, many economists dismissed warnings that property and stock markets were overvalued. US central bank boss Alan Greenspan was a leading figure who argued that markets were correctly pricing shares, property and exotic derivatives in line with economic models of behaviour. It was only when the US sub-prime mortgage market unravelled that regulators, policymakers and banks realised a collective failure to spot the bubble had wrecked their economies. In his bestselling book Capital in the Twenty-First Century, the economist Thomas Piketty attacks mainstream economic teaching, accusing academics of believing mathematical models without looking at growing evidence that undermines the conclusions. Piketty's look back over the last 200 years of economic development in search of lessons for the next 100 years is currently the best selling book on Amazon in the US. He says academics have ignored evidence of growing inequality and its influence on GDP growth since the 1970s. "For too long economists have neglected the distribution of wealth, partly because of the profession's undue enthusiasm for simplistic mathematical models based on so-called representative agents," he says. The student manifesto calls on university economics departments to hire lecturers with a broader outlook and introduce a wider selection of texts. It also asks that lecturers endorse collaborations between social sciences and humanities departments or "establish special departments that could oversee interdisciplinary programmes blending economics and other fields". The manifesto says: "Change will be difficult – it always is. But it is already happening. Students across the world have already started creating change step by step. We have founded university groups and built networks both nationally and internationally. Change must come from many places. So now we invite you – students, economists, and non-economists – to join us and create the critical mass needed for change." This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Antony Njuguna A central conceit of Bitcoin evangelists is that the cryptocurrency could be most useful to "the global unbanked." These are the 575 million individuals in mostly emerging markets who lack access to basic financial services, even a bank account. In principal, the advocates are correct. The time it takes to process a bitcoin transaction — about 10 minutes — is far faster than the three days it would take in the regular banking system. It's also usually cheaper.  But a new survey from trade association GSM shows that even the most promising emerging-market electronic payments technology, mobile money, has only just begun to break out, meaning it could take years to unseat cash as the payment method of choice in the developing world. Mobile money can be used for just about anything. You can buy stuff at a grocery store. You can send and receive money to and from friends and relatives. You can pay and tip your taxi driver. And you can buy phone minutes. To upload or withdraw cash, you need only walk to a mobile money agent.  The granddaddy of mobile money is a service called M-Pesa. Launched in Kenya in 2007, the service was an overnight sensation, and is now used by much the adult population there. Its success is chalked up to close collaboration between the Kenyan government and Safaricom — the unit of Vodafone that operates M-Pesa — that allowed the service to spread. It also began life as a pilot program for microlending, which allowed developers to realize users were tapping the service to send and receive payments instead. After this, there was a huge marketing push. Here's what the homescreen of M-Pesa looks like: REUTERS/Noor Khamis  Here's an M-Pesa stand in downtown Nairobi. This is where you withdraw and deposit money. REUTERS/Noor Khamis Africa and the Middle East processed $5.7 billion in mobile money volume last year. No other country has come close to Kenya in terms of mobile money adoption. Check out this chart showing volume breakdowns. Eastern Africa dwarfs all other regions. East Asia and Pacific, represented by Indonesia, appears to be the next closest. The rest of Africa barely registers. GSM GSM's data data show a strange phenomenon.  The number of registered mobile money accounts nearly tripled to 203 million in June 2013 from 71 million in June 2011. And the number of active users — those who made at least one transaction within the last 90 days — nearly doubled from 2012 to 2013. There are now 218 different providers beyond M-Pesa worldwide.  But of the 203 million registered users, East Africa accounted for 34%, with the vast majority of those being in Kenya. And the number of active mobile money accounts totals just 61 million — barely 30% of total registered users.  Here's the chart: GSM "Activating customers remains a challenge for a large number of services," GSM says. "Even when customers are aware of the service, they may not necessarily understand how they would benefit from using it. Using mobile money represents a significant behavioral change in economies where almost all payment transactions are conducted in cash." In fact, over-the-counter services, where a mobile money agent performs the transactions on behalf of an unregistered walk-in customer, are now the fastest-growing segment of active mobile money users, at a 102% annualized rate, most of it in South Asia.  These services "offer a compelling value proposition for unbanked customers, a segment where literacy levels are often very low and where people tend to be more suspicious of new technologies."   Central bankers and legislators haven't caught up to the inherent promise of mobile money. "Mobile money is a young industry with over 80% of all deployments launched within or after 2010," GSMA director-general Anne Bouverot said in a recent statement. "In order to accelerate the growth of mobile money, we call on telecommunications, financial sector regulators and policymakers to provide a policy and fiscal environment that enables these services to be rolled out successfully to promote a nascent and important driver of commerce and socio-economic development." Within Kenya, M-Pesa has become so ingrained that competitors have struggled to make inroads, meaning innovation has stalled out. "Some people have been using M-Pesa for three, four, five years, and are reluctant to take on new services," Mustafa Golam, a consultant for Nokia in Kenya, told Business Insider. "There's a lot of technology-phobia — very few people will actually try it because they're happy with M-Pesa." GSM also found that remittances — another key Bitcoin selling-point — remain a "marginal service" among mobile money providers, though more seem to be adding them. Providers said they processed fewer than 50,000 international remittances in the month they were surveyed. "While a large number of providers are interested in launching international remittance, major barriers continue to slow down the uptake of this product," GSM says. Instead, the fastest-growing transactions type is bill pay. The largest service overall remains buying more mobile minutes. Here's a breakdown of how mobile money was used in a single month: GSM By GSM's reckoning, many citizens of the developing world have only begun orienting their commercial lives around the promise of mobile money. So it's not surprising that Bitcoin's rollout in the developing world has been sluggish. Here's a chart (used with permission) from a new Coindesk report showing the breakdown of Bitcoin vendors by region: Coindesk  But as with most Bitcoin proponents, those looking to expand its reach, remain utterly undeterred by any of this. Mainly they argue that the same things holding mobile money back will allow Bitcoin to come in.  "Countries where there may be 3 mobile money operators with roughly the same number of subscribers, if that’s the case, then [mobile money] not used widely," Pelle Braendgaard, the outgoing head of Kipochi, a Bitcoin payments app targeted at developing markets, told BI. "As a user, if I want to send money to anyone, I have to have an account with each of these services, so it's just not very practical." He also observes smartphone use is steadily increasing — and indeed Safaricom now says 67% of mobile phones sold in Kenya are smartphones.  What's more, M-Pesa now faces an "innovator's dilemma," in that it's too big and too entrenched to act upon what's on the horizon, Braendgaard continued.  "It's a transitory solution, it’s not a permanent solution," he said. "It’s been very effective but it's extremely primitive — it's showing it's age. ... I don't know how long it will take but I just don't see a particularly large future for it." Aditya Khurjekar, a former Verizon exec, agrees that services like M-Pesa will prove temporary in the long run. Even if it's not Bitcoin itself, a Bitcoin-like payment "rail" that uses a network of computers to confirm transactions  will take over, not just in Africa but everywhere.  "It is a business-model problem," he told BI. "I think what Bitcoin — the cryptocurrency infrastructure, the technology — does, is it makes these artificial constraints irrelevant.  It doesn't matter what geography you’re in, whatever local bank consortium you're in, how quickly they have to settle money, it doesn't really have to follow these artificial constraints." As with most things Bitcoin, it's simply too early to expect a substantial expansion in emerging markets. M-Pesa caught lightning in a bottle thanks in large part to massive backing from a multinational conglomerate. Given that Bitcoin is premised on doing away with such entities, it will likely have to wait a long time to compete. FREE AppDownload
Target CEO Gregg Steinhafel just lost his job.  While many have blamed the company's massive data breach for his firing, Target Canada's struggling operations could be a bigger factor, writes Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors.  Target opened more than 100 stores in Canada last year.  The discount chain's expansion up north has been a bumpy one. Company executives admitted that inventory didn't sell as quickly as they expected, which hurt profits.  Sozzi published photos of Target Canada last year that indicate why the business could be struggling.  His images portray understocked shelves and disorganized displays.  Take this freezer, which is looks understocked and empty:  Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  "Look at the dominant clearance signs on the cheap chic items Target is known for in the U.S.," Sozzi writes.  Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  This emptiness is also apparent in the beauty section:  Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  And in home goods, one of the greatest triumphs of Target U.S.  Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  "It looks as if workers are being told to push up merchandise on the shelves because the store is unsure on when new shipments will arrive," Sozzi writes.  Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  These empty shelves are pretty bad in the apparel section.  Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  "Why have a display wall at all?" he asks.  Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  Where there should be multiple rows of products, Target Canada is thinly displaying just one or two bottles of detergent at a time:  Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  The shoe display is no better:  Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  Meanwhile, the clearance section offers products for 90% off.  "That type of discount is alarming at a newly opened business," Sozzi said.  Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  Some shelves, like those in the paper towel aisle, appear empty:  Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  And that emptiness even extends to food:  Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  "One almost is overcome with this creepy feeling (at least we are given our close tracking of the situation) that Target will go the way of many U.S. brands that ventured into Canadian retailing…extinct," Sozzi writes.  FREE AppDownload
The NSA Careers Twitter account just sent out what looks like a string of gibberish. Here it is via Neetzan Zimmerman: tpfccdlfdtte pcaccplircdt dklpcfrp?qeiq lhpqlipqeodf gpwafopwprti izxndkiqpkii krirrifcapnc dxkdciqcafmd vkfpcadf. #MissionMonday #NSA #news ABC News' Micah Grimes speculated that it was a code, and indeed the letters don't appear to be completely random. First, all but two of the blocks are made up of exactly twelve letters. The exceptions are the third block, with a question mark in the middle bringing the total up to 13 characters, and the last block, with eight letters and a period. The question mark may be a typo or extra clue, and the last block might be shorter because it's at the end of the message. If this were a purely accidental tweet, it's unlikely that we'd get this regularity.  It's also important to note that this doesn't mean that all of the words in the decoded text will have twelve letters. Instead, it's just a common practice when writing out an encoded text to break the text into blocks of equal length to make it a bit easier to read. Further, the letters don't appear to be distributed randomly, or in a way consistent with a keyboard mash. Some letters, like P, C, and I, appear a lot in the tweet, whereas five letters don't show up at all. Here are the letter frequencies in the tweet, as calculated with a set of online cryptanalysis tools: Business Insider A very simple type of encryption is a shift, or Caesar cipher. The alphabet is simply shifted over by some fixed distance. A Caesar cipher with a shift of 1 would send A to B, B to C, and so on, with Z wrapping back around to A. A shift of 2 would send A to C, B to D, C to E, and so on, with Y wrapping around to A and Z wrapping around to B. We tried the Caesar cipher tool on the above site for the mystery tweet and a couple of shifts, and unfortunately came up with nothing. Here's our input to the tool, shifting by half the alphabet of 13 letters: Business Insider We got the very discouraging output below: Business Insider If you can figure this out, you may have a job waiting for you at the NSA. UPDATE: It turns out that the tweet was a message encoded with a very basic cipher, and some people decoded it. FREE AppDownload
JP Morgan, MarkitAll of the major economies around the world have published their April manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) reports. And while manufacturing activity continues to grow, the pace of growth is decelerating. The JP Morgan Global Manufacturing PMI index slipped to a six-month low of 51.9 in April from 52.4 in March. The output, new orders, employment, and input prices subindices all reflected slower growth during the period. "[T]he world aggregates were affected by a marked turnaround in the performance of Japan," said JP Morgan analysts. "Japanese manufacturing output and new business fell sharply following a recent increase in sales tax." The good news is that this doesn't appear to be a permanent problem. "[O]ther evidence from the Japan survey suggests the downturn may be brief, providing a boost to the global indices in coming months," they said. Here's a bit more color from the report: In contrast, the UK and the US remained bright spots, with output and new order growth accelerating from already elevated rates. The Czech Republic also remained one of the strongest performers. In the euro area, output growth reached a three-month high and was only slightly off of January’s near three-year high. Conditions in Asia remained subdued in comparison. Apart from the sharp downturn in Japan, there was also a solid decline in Chinese output. South Korean and Indonesian output also contracted, while growth slowed in India and Taiwan. Elsewhere, Brazil and Russia both registered lower production. Click here for Markit's full report » FREE AppDownload
These game-changing facts about Under Armour prove it's the hottest athletic apparel company in the market. Produced by Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
REUTERS/Anindito MukherjeeThe ISM non-manufacturing index increased to 55.2 in April from 53.1 in March. This was better than the 54.0 economists were forecasting. Any reading above 50 signals growth in the sector. "This is the strongest reading since last August and leaves the six-month moving average at 53.5," noted Barclays' Cooper Howes. "At its new level, the ISM non-manufacturing index is consistent with GDP growth of about 2.5% annualised, but we wouldn't be surprised to see it strengthen further over the next few months and we currently expect that second-quarter GDP growth will be as high as 3.5%," said Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth. The new orders subindex jumped to 58.2 from 53.4, and the export orders subindex ramped up to 57.0 from 49.5. This more than offset deterioration in the employment subindex, which fell to 51.3 from 53.6. "If sustained at this level, the index would be consistent with private payroll growth trending at only 130K or so," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson. "We hope this weakness is a hangover from the winter - before the weather hit, the index was consistently pointing to 200K-plus gains - but we can't yet be sure." Here's NMI on the industries: The 14 non-manufacturing industries reporting growth in April — listed in order — are: Arts, Entertainment &amp; Recreation; Wholesale Trade; Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &amp; Hunting; Retail Trade; Construction; Public Administration; Accommodation &amp; Food Services; Educational Services; Transportation &amp; Warehousing; Finance &amp; Insurance; Management of Companies &amp; Support Services; Information; Real Estate, Rental &amp; Leasing; and Utilities. The four industries reporting contraction in April are: Mining; Health Care &amp; Social Assistance; Professional, Scientific &amp; Technical Services; and Other Services. Here are some anecdotes from the survey: Here's a breakdown of the subindexes: ISM FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidDavid Einhorn.Today, hundreds of investors will be gathering at Lincoln Center in Manhattan for the 19th annual Sohn Investment Conference.  This charity conference brings together some of the biggest names in the hedge-fund community to share their best ideas. Some of them are stock picks and others are investment ideas. This year's line-up includes Paul Tudor Jones II, Bill Ackman, David Einhorn, and Jeffrey Gundlach. Not all of the investment picks have been winners, though. We've included a roundup of last year's equity picks and how they have performed since then. Some of them were big losers. A few turned out to be winners.  Here's the rundown of how they performed from May 8, 2013, through May 2, 2014:  As Einhorn always says, "It doesn't make sense to blindly follow me or anyone else into a stock ... Do your own work."  FREE AppDownload
T-MobileMarkit Economics' reading of April services activity hit 55.0, beating consensus but declining from March's 55.3 figure. Analysts had forecast a reading of 54.5. Full release » "...Service providers mostly noted that the current demand environment was insufficient to generate capacity pressures at their units," the report said. Here's the chart: Markit Markit economist Chris Williams said the data were so-so: "...The surveys suggest that the trend rate of growth has eased since late last year. With the exceptions of last October’s government shutdown and the weather-disruptions at the start of the year, April’s growth rate was the slowest since May last year. “...The surveys are also signalling an easing in the rate of job creation since the start of the year, pointing to private sector payroll growth in the region of 100k, meaning a substantial slowing compared to the recent average 225k increases signalled by official data over the past three months.” Reminder: the U.S. is a services-oriented economy. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Allen FredricksonGregg SteinhafelTarget's CEO Gregg Steinhafel is out. "Today we are announcing that, after extensive discussions, the board and Gregg Steinhafel have decided that now is the right time for new leadership at Target," said the company in a statement. "Effective immediately, Gregg will step down from his positions as Chairman of the Target board of directors, president and CEO." Steinhafel won't be walking away empty-handed. While the terms of his exit package have yet to come out, Target's last proxy statement included some details of how Steinhafel would be paid in an early termination. Specifically, he would be getting paid out under the company's officer deferred compensation plan (ODCP). Assuming a voluntary termination, which is what today's news looks like, the value of Steinhafel's ODCP package was worth $9,262,907 as of April 2013. The ODCP is kind of an obscure compensation package that Target closed off to new participants back in 1996. Here's how it's described in the proxy statement: Participants' ODCP accounts are credited with earnings based on the average Moody's Bond Indices Corporate AA rate for June of the preceding calendar year, plus an additional annual return of 6%. The minimum crediting rate is 12% and the maximum is 20%. The average Moody's Bond Indices Corporate AA rate was 3.78% as of June 2012, when the rate for calendar 2013 was set... Payouts from the ODCP cannot be made until termination of employment, death, termination of the ODCP, a qualifying change in control, or unforeseeable financial emergency of the participant creating severe financial hardship. The value of that package was worth $7.95 million in 2012. Now, if he had been fired (that is, had an involuntary termination), Steinhafel would be entitled to a lot more. In addition to the $9.2 million, Steinhafel's package according to the last proxy statement would've included $11,004,000 under the company's income continuance policy, and $6,348,471 for his restricted stock units. Here's the relevant discussion from Target's last proxy statement: SEC
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
So many of us use Gmail, but we don't know about all the little nuggets hidden inside. Here are a few crucial ones to know.
www.barnesandnoble.comWarren Buffett, Bill Gates, and Charlie Munger were on CNBC this morning. The host, Becky Quick, asked each what they've been reading lately. Here are their answers: Bill Gates: "Reinventing American Health Care: How the Affordable Care Act will Improve our Terribly Complex, Blatantly Unjust, Outrageously Expensive, Grossly Inefficient, Error Prone System." Gates has a big interest in healthcare (especially internationally), and this book is about exorbitant healthcare costs in the U.S and what can be done about them. Charlie Munger: "Faraday, Maxwell, and the Electromagnetic Field: How Two Men Revolutionized Physics." This book is about science, and Munger called it a great achievement. Warren Buffett: "Stress Test: Reflections on Financial Crises." This is Tim Geithner's forthcoming book. It's about the crisis, and Buffett says it's a must-read for anyone in management. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Keith BedfordTarget president and CEO Gregg Steinhafel speaks during an event announcing a holiday collection that partners Target and Neiman Marcus in New York, on Oct. 16, 2012.Target CEO Gregg Steinhafel has stepped down. Last December, Target was the subject of a massive hack that saw 40 million customers' credit-card numbers stolen. Later reports suggested Target could have prevented the attack. Since then, the company has faced at least 90 lawsuits (and had spent $61 million through Feb. 1 to settle them). The company will report first-quarter earnings on May 21. Steinhafel came on as CEO in 2008 and had been with the company for 35 years.  Shares are down 1.7% pre-market.  FULL STATEMENT: Today we are announcing that, after extensive discussions, the board and Gregg Steinhafel have decided that now is the right time for new leadership at Target. Effective immediately, Gregg will step down from his positions as Chairman of the Target board of directors, president and CEO. John Mulligan, Target’s chief financial officer, has been appointed as interim president and chief executive officer. Roxanne S. Austin, a current member of Target’s board of directors, has been appointed as interim non-executive chair of the board. Both will serve in their roles until permanent replacements are named. We have asked Gregg Steinhafel to serve in an advisory capacity during this transition and he has graciously agreed. The board is deeply grateful to Gregg for his significant contributions and outstanding service throughout his notable 35-year career with the company. We believe his passion for the team and relentless focus on the guest have established Target as a leader in the retail industry. Gregg has created a culture that fosters innovation and supports the development of new ideas. Under his leadership, the company has not only enhanced its ability to execute, but has broadened its strategic horizons. He also led the company through unprecedented challenges, navigating the financial recession, reacting to challenges with Target’s expansion into Canada, and successfully defending the company through a high-profile proxy battle. Most recently, Gregg led the response to Target’s 2013 data breach. He held himself personally accountable and pledged that Target would emerge a better company. We are grateful to him for his tireless leadership and will always consider him a member of the Target family. The board will continue to be actively engaged with the leadership team to drive Target’s future success and will manage the transition. In addition to the appointments of the exceptional leaders noted above, we have also retained Korn Ferry to advise the board on a comprehensive CEO search. The board is confident in the future of this company and views this transition as an opportunity to drive Target’s business forward and accelerate the company’s transformation efforts. FREE AppDownload
Aaron Taube/Business InsiderThe S&amp;P 500 is just 16 points from its all-time intraday high of 1,897. However, it's also been a pretty volatile year, especially for the high-growth momentum stocks. As of Friday, the S&amp;P 500 was up a measly 1.7%, but the Nasdaq was down by 1.2%. All of this has made for a particularly challenging environment for equity fund managers who are having just the worst time keeping up with the market. "Calendar year 2014 is now 1/3 behind us and for many equity portfolio managers the calendar is turning into an annus horribilis to use the phrase immortalized by Queen Elizabeth II," wrote Goldman Sachs' David Kostin in a new note to clients. "Nearly 90% of large-cap growth mutual funds, 90% of value funds, and 2/3 of core funds are trailing their style return benchmarks YTD (1%, 4%, and 2%, respectively)." Generally, you hear that somewhere between 50% to 80% of fund managers will lag the markets. So indeed, this annus has been horribilis. "Stock-picking has been extraordinarily challenging this year," added Kostin. "The typical hedge fund had a YTD return slightly below zero as of April 30. Dispersion of S&amp;P 500 stock returns for the last three months ranks at the 1st percentile compared with the past 30 years. Within Consumer Discretionary, where hedge funds have nearly 25% of their net exposure, the return dispersion also ranks in the 1st percentile. Simply put, 2/3 of consumer stocks usually have a three-month return within a 29 percentage point span. However, the range is currently just 16 percentage points which makes both long and short security selection extremely difficult compared with prior periods." In other words, the folks who have been taking the advice of Jack Bogle and Warren Buffett have been beating 90% of the pros. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Ted S. Warren2013 was a rough year for Dunkin' Brands (NASDAQ: DNKN  ) . Same-store sales growth stalled in every segment. On the first-quarter earnings call, CEO Nigel Travis reported another poor quarter but reminded investors about the volatile weather that had a strong effect on peak morning business. When our guests' normal morning routine gets disrupted by store closings as a result of snow and bad storms, we lose their visit on that particular day. That visit, in most cases, is not recoverable. Then on April 24 Starbucks (NASDAQ: SBUX  ) made Travis look stupid by reporting record financial results for the quarter ended March 30. Global same-store sales were up 6%, net sales increased 9%, and operating income rose 18%. By all accounts the trend was positive, despite Starbucks having to deal with the same headwinds as Dunkin'. If you believe most headlines, however, that trend is about to change due to the rising price of coffee. Don't be fooled. Historically, an increase in the price of coffee has benefited same-store sales growth for Starbucks, just like it did last quarter. At year-end 2010 coffee futures were at the same level they are at today; the trend is up due to Brazil's drought. Volcafe cut its forecast for coffee supply by 11% due to the drought, but the full impact won't be known until the end of May. NASDAQAs you can see from the chart below, a similar increase in coffee prices began in mid-2010 and ended in mid-2011. The question for major sellers of coffee products is whether or not they're prepared to weather the upcoming price storm if the drought continues. According to The Wall Street Journal, Craig Russell, Starbucks' head of coffee, has already purchased 40% of next year's supply needs. Dunkin' has prices locked in through the end of this fiscal year but may decide to make purchases in the fourth quarter. "Eventually, you have to buy coffee," said Russell. It is this eventuality that is Starbucks' secret weapon, and opportunity, against competitors. As Russell said, at some point coffeehouses will have to buy more coffee. These may be smaller stores or independent coffee shops that don't sell enough coffee to make forward purchases of the commodity at locked-in prices like Starbucks and Dunkin'. As a result, these smaller coffeehouses are forced to either eat the costs or pass them on to customers. By around the third price increase, even the most loyal customers begin migrating to Starbucks; it feels more like an independent coffeehouse than Dunkin Donuts does, but the prices are affordable. It's a survival-of-the-fittest customer-acquisition strategy that fuels growth for Starbucks in times of rising coffee prices. Indeed, Starbucks' same-store sales peaked in 2011, and earnings per share grew more than 100% from 2009 to 2011. People go to Starbucks for more than the insanely addictive commodity it sells -- there's something about the place that makes you feel like you're "cool." Maybe it's the music or the heavy conservationism theme that permeates the stores; perhaps it's the hip, multicultural baristas who write your name on every cup. It has all the feel and charm of a cozy coffee shop; and when one independent coffeehouse is closed, there's usually a Starbucks around the corner. In all appearances, there's no difference between Starbucks and the independent coffeehouse, but Starbucks is really a large, multinational conglomerate with a slick business model that thrives when coffee prices rise. Look for increases, not decreases, in same-store sales growth over the next year, as increases in coffee prices tend to add value to this company. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Pawel Kopczynski Traders work at their desks at Frankfurt's stock exchange August 8, 2011. Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus has today's trader talk: US Futures are starting on the back foot, off almost 50bp and near overnight Lows.   Several reasons for the weakness – Ukraine angst building, Chinese Manufacturing disappoints, Persistent Bond Bid, protection buying into this week’s catalysts (Big ones Yellen on Weds, ECB and BoE on Thursday) – all in light liquidity - Euro Markets seeing very light volumes today ahead of ECB this Thursday as FTSE and Nikkei closed for Holiday.   The Euro markets are taking the worst of the Ukraine angst, with the DAX off over 1.5% - so US markets may see a reversal of pressure around the EU close (trend we note when angst builds overseas)  - The Chinese markets traded quiet, but that HSBC manufacturing report drove Hong Kong off 1.5%.   Aussie markets closed slightly higher on the back of short-covering in the mining sector.  The Momentum stocks in the US are starting on the back foot, with SPWR, SINA, TWTR (Lockup expiry), YELP and DDD all off 1.2%+.   Notable earnings today include OXY, PFE, SYY, TSN before the open – and AIG, APC, and VNO after the bell. The 10YY is nearing October lows as it tests the bottom of the range – Great article out discussing the scarcity of Treasuries right when Pension purchases are ramping due to taxation changes.   Both the Yen and Euro arew stronger to the $, causing a tailwind for commodsities this AM.   Gold nearing 1M high (Despite EU slashing inflation forecasts) and Wheat 1Y highs on Ukraine, but interesting that Brent is in the red despite the sharp drop reported in Libya production.   Keep an eye on Copper – rolling back over on the weak Chinese data and eyeballing another $300 test.    The main catalysts today include headlines from the Ira Sohn Conference - US Services PMI at 9:45, ISM Services at 10, and a $2.25 - $2.75 billion POMO Operation. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joshua RobertsU.S. President Barack Obama is shown on a screen as he speaks during the White House Correspondents' Association Dinner in Washington on May 3, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Chinese manufacturing is contracting. HSBC's China manufacturing PMI climbed to 48.3 in April from 48.0 in March. However, any reading below 50 signals contraction in the industry. "These indicate that the manufacturing sector, and the broader economy as a whole, continues to lose momentum," said HSBC's Hongbin Qu. "Over the past few days, Beijing has introduced more reform measures which could support growth by inducing more private sector investment. We think bolder actions will be required to ensure the economy regains its momentum." Warren Buffett isn't interested in war. Berkshire Hathaway held its annual shareholder meeting this weekend. Buffett reminded shareholders that there was "no guarantee" Berkshire would outperform the S&amp;P 500 in every cycle. Regarding his role in Coca-Cola's controversial equity plan, he said it wouldn't have been productive to "go to war" with the board. "I think the best result for the Coca-Cola Company was achieved by our abstention, and we will see what happens in terms of compensation between now and the next meeting of Coke," he said. Apple wins $120 million from Samsung. Apple won a patent lawsuit against Samsung. However, Samsung will only be paying Apple $120 million, which is far less than the $2.2 billion the company was hoping for. "Today’s ruling reinforces what courts around the world have already found: that Samsung willfully stole our ideas and copied our products," said Apple in a statement. Euro zone inflation is staying low. The European Commission reduced its 2015 GDP growth forecast for the euro zone to 1.7% from February's prediction of 1.8%. It also forecasted that the inflation rate would be 0.8% this year and just 1.2% next year. JP Morgan's 'challenging environment.' On Friday afternoon, JP Morgan Chase filed its latest 10-Q, and in it the bank warned its Q2 markets revenue wasn't looking great. "Based on Markets revenue results to date, which reflect a continued challenging environment and lower client activity levels, expect 2Q14 Markets revenue to be down approximately 20%+/- versus 2Q13," said the company. "The Markets revenue actual results will depend heavily on performance throughout the remainder of the quarter, which can be volatile." Another GM recall. GM is recalling 51,640 SUVs. The recall include 2014 models of the Buick Enclave, the Chevy traverse, and the GMC Acadia. "An inaccurate fuel gauge may result in the vehicle unexpectedly running out of fuel and stalling, increasing the risk of a crash," said the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Economist Gary Becker has died. Becker won the Nobel prize in economics in 1992. "The 82-year old Becker was a pioneer in using the tools of economics to analyze things that are frequently thought to be outside the realm of economics," noted BI's Joe Weisenthal. "This idea of using economics to analyze non-market things seems normal these days (the book "Freakonomics" was all about this, and was a huge blockbuster). But when Gary Becker started doing this it was novel. And he truly taught people to see the world in new ways." India makes the cover of Barron's. As 800 million Indians head to the polls in history's largest-ever election, Barron's Jonathan Laing offers a bullish picture assuming Gujarat's Narendra Modi wins. "Modi's governance style flies in the face of Indian tradition, which has featured backroom business deals in exchange for kickbacks to circumvent the prospect of endless bureaucratic delays," wrote Laing. "Bidding on government contracts in Gujarat is done on the Internet, not over tea. Modi also has embraced privatization of key sectors like ports, water, and power, which is unusual in most of India's 28 state governments and in Delhi, where a dreamy Congress Party's predilection for socialism still holds sway despite the ideology's many failures in India since independence in 1947." Pfizer earnings beat. Pfizer said its Q1 revenue fell 9% year-over-year to $11.35 billion. Adjusted earnings came in at $0.57, which was a bit higher than the $0.55 expected by analysts. An update on American services. Later this morning, we'll get two U.S. services industry reports. First, we get Markit's services PMI report at 9:45 a.m ET; economists estimate the headline fell to 54.5 in April from 55.3 in March. At 10:00 a.m. ET comes the ISM non-manufacturing index; economists estimate ISM's index increased to 54.0 in April from 53.1 in March. "Early readings on the service sector for April, including the Richmond Fed survey and the flash reading of the Markit services PMI, pulled back slightly for April, but remained in positive territory," noted Wells Fargo's John Silvia. Markets around the world are in the red. Asian market closed lower. European markets are in the red. And U.S. futures are predicting a down day. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Federal ReserveA Federal Open Market Committee meeting in the 1970s.Last week's weak GDP report, strong spending report, and mixed jobs report have given economists and policymakers plenty to think about. While there isn't much on the economic data calendar, several key Federal Reserve officials will be speaking this week. On Tuesday, Fed Governor Jeremy Stein will speak about monetary policy communication; on Wednesday, Fed Chair Janet Yellen will testify to Congress about the economic outlook; on Thursday, Philly Fed President Charles Plosser will speak about monetary policy  communication and transparency; and on Friday, Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher will speak about the limits of monetary policy. Everyone will be listening for clues on where monetary policy might be headed next. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Last week, the Dow Jones Industrial Average booked a record-high close. Meanwhile, the S&amp;P 500 ended the week just 16 points from its all-time intraday high of 1,897. Meanwhile, the CBOE Volatility Index (VIX) continues to be very low. In a new research note, JP Morgan's Jan Loeys warns that the low VIX is by no means an all-clear. From Loeys: "Most dangerous to markets is that low volatility is not the same as low risk. It can be, as fewer shocks depress volatility. But markets can also move in tight trading ranges if the shocks hitting them neatly offset each other. And that is probably what has happened this year. The continued lack of a yield on cash remains a powerful stimulant for financial assets. But economic activity data have seriously disappointed so far this year. By our estimates, Q1 global growth is only coming in near 2%, well down from the 3% we expected at the start of the year. We have kept our growth projections for the rest of the year largely unchanged, balancing off the possibility that Q1 weakness was just due to temporary factors — suggesting upside from Q2 on — and the possibility that something more fundamental is going wrong in the world economy." For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
A useful slide from Goldman Sachs shows what has and hasn't worked in 2014. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Mario AnzuoniWarren Buffett, CEO of Berkshire Hathaway, takes part in a conversation on leadership and the economy at The Women's Conference 2008 in Long Beach, California October 22, 2008.Warren Buffett is on CNBC this morning. And the top topic of conversation (after a quick discussion of low interest rates) is corporate governance. Buffett has been in the spotlight lately because he didn't vote against a pay package at Coca-Cola that was widely deemed excessive. Buffett's view: He doesn't have any interest in going to "war" against Coke (which he's owned for a long time) but he does want to apply pressure in other areas, and he expressed his disagreement with the package on other ways. As he puts it, a boardmember only has so many "bullets" and if you make a habit of voting against everything you don't like, people stop listening to you. He also made an interesting point about boards being inherently "social" entities, with directors who don't want to bother other people so they can get jobs elsewhere. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Thomas Hawk Good morning! Things started off very quietly in the world of markets, but there's been some deterioration. US futures are off about 0.4%. Germany's DAX is off 1.4%. Italy is off 1.25%. After last week's flurry of economic data (culminating in that strange Jobs Report on Friday) this week there is hardly any data. Overnight the big news was the release of Chinese PMI, which shows manufacturing continuing to contract. While this week will be quiet from a data perspective, we will be treated to a flurry of Fed-related speakers. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMasked pro-Russian activists stand outside a branch of Ukraine's Privatbank during a protest in DonetskKIEV (Reuters) - Ukraine's largest bank has temporarily closed branches in separatist-held Donetsk and Luhansk, saying it could no longer carry out cash transactions in regions riddled with crime that could "threaten the lives" of its workers. Pro-Russian separatists have targeted Privatbank, after its co-owner, billionaire Igor Kolomoisky, was appointed by the new government head of the nearby Dnipropetrovsk region and swiftly announced a $10,000 bounty on the heads of Russian "saboteurs". Rebels, who say they want independence from Kiev, set fire to a branch in the town of Mariupol in the Donetsk region late on Saturday and raided a security truck last week in Horlivka, south of the region's main rebel stronghold. "In the current circumstances we cannot and do not have the right to make people go to work in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, where armed people break into bank branches and seize security vans in the towns," Privatbank said in a statement. It said its clients could access their accounts via the Internet and mobile devices, use their cards in shops and make cashless transactions at self-service terminals. "Over the last 10 days, 38 ATMs, 24 branches of Privatbank and 11 cash collection vans have suffered arson, assault and wanton destruction in the cities of Donetsk and Luhansk," it said, adding that the bank processes more than 400,000 pensions and other social benefits for 220,000 people in both regions. Kolomoisky, Ukraine's fourth richest man, according to Forbes magazine, has become a hate figure for the pro-Russian separatists after he said he would give $10,000 to Ukrainian troops for every "saboteur" handed over. The leader of the regional militia in Dnipropetrovsk, which borders Donetsk, also said $1,000 would be paid for a rifle, $1,500 for a machinegun and $2,000 for a grenade-launcher. Dnipropetrovsk has been quiet since separatists started taking control of wide swathes of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions last month, in an operation blamed on Moscow by Kiev's new pro-Western leaders. Russia, which has long considered Slavic Ukraine an extension of its own country, denies any involvement in the unrest, saying Russian speakers are simply protecting their rights from attacks by a hostile government. (reporting by Elizabeth Piper and Natalia Zinets, editing by Nigel Stephenson) FREE AppDownload
 Etihad, the Abu Dhabi-based national carrier of the United Arab Emirates, has created the closest thing to having you own private jet on its commercial flights. Etihad It’s called ‘The Residence’ – a 11.6-square-metres (125ft sq) 3-room upper-deck cabin on Etihad A380s with a living room, separate double bedroom (1.2m wide), ensuite shower room and personal butler, trained at London’s Savoy Butler Academy, as well as a travel concierge on hand, plus a chef to cook whatever passengers fancy Etihad Danni Minogue takes you through it in the video above. Etihad Etihad has also upped the ante in first class on A380s, with new private suites, ‘First Apartment’, 74% larger that its existing suites, with Poltrona Frau leather reclining armchair and 203cm-long ottoman that transforms into a flat bed, swivelling 86cm TV, mini-bar, personal vanity unit and wardrobe, all behind a 162cm-high sliding door. Etihad First Class also has a shower room and Etihad A380s have mobile and Wi-fi access. While Australia won’t see the A380 until June 2015, if you’re keen to try the service between Abu Dhabi and London, expect to pay around USD $20,000 for the pleasure, whether it’s one or two passengers. Etihad Launching the new services in Abu Dhabi today, Etihad announced it’s also increasing the space in business class ‘studios’ by 20 per cent on current configuration for both the A380 and B787. First and business class also has a communal space known as The Lobby, a bar and lounge with a semi-circular leather sofa, a marquetry table and large TV screen.  Etihad The airline is also upgrading to Panasonic eX3 entertainment systems with 750 hours of on-demand entertainment, improved gaming and video touchscreen handsets. There’s also USB connection to the TV, so you can plug in and watch your own stuff, plus live channels too. If you find yourself stuck back in business class, you just might survive the ordeal in the new studio space.  Etihad This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Our friends over at Sober Look asked an interesting question over the weekend – why did T-bonds rally if the job’s report was stronger than expected?  This is not an easy question to answer, but I think he touches on one of the potential causes – wages and inflation. While the headline figure in the payroll report was quite strong, the underlying data showed very little signs of inflation on the horizon.  This seems strange, but its been a consistent characteristic in the US labor market for much of the last 10 years.  Average hourly earnings just aren’t rising very rapidly even when payrolls are strong.  This past month’s report showed steady earnings at 34.5 hours and average earnings were flat versus expectations of a 0.2% monthly increase. There’s just no sign of high inflation on the horizon so bond traders remain relatively calm about the potential for future price erosion in the holdings.  The story’s probably a bit more complex than that, but in the long-run, inflation is a bond trader’s worst enemy so it’s probably not too much more complex than that…. FRED FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Phil McCartenGary Becker, Nobel Laureate, 1992; University Professor of Economics and Sociology, University of ChicagoNobel Laureate economist Gary Becker has passed away, Greg Mankiw reports on his blog. The 82-year old Becker was a pioneer in using the tools of economics to analyze things that are frequently thought to be outside the realm of economics. This idea of using economics to analyze non-market things seems normal these days (the book Freakonomics was all about this, and was a huge blockbuster). But when Gary Becker started doing this it was novel. And he truly taught people to see the world in new ways. Becker's Nobel Prize lecture is titled The Economic Way Of Looking At Life (.pdf) and in it, Becker briefly goes over how he used economics to analyze such topics as crime (why people commit it), discrimination against minorities, and family life. In his powerful intro, he makes two important points. One is that economists who presume that everyone is selfish (maximizing their own utility) take too narrow a view of human motivation. People are motivated to act for all kinds of reasons (jealousy, spite, etc.). His other point is that while productivity has provided abundance in many areas, the one resource that we'll never have more of his time. Time will always run out, and there will always only be 24 hours in a day. For this reason, we'll never have Utopia, because that scarcity will always be there. My research uses the economic approach to analyze social issues that range beyond those usually considered by economists. This lecture will describe the approach, and illustrate it with examples drawn from past and current work. Unlike Marxian analysis, the economic approach I refer to does not assume that individuals are motivated solely by selfishness or gain. It is a method of analysis, not an assumption about particular motivations. Along with others, I have tried to pry economists away from narrow assumptions about self interest. Behavior is driven by a much richer set of values and preferences. The analysis assumes that individuals maximize welfare as they conceive it, whether they be selfish, altruistic, loyal, spiteful, or masochistic. Their behavior is forward-looking, and it is also consistent over time. In particular, they try as best they can to anticipate the uncertain consequences of their actions. Forward-looking behavior, however, may still be rooted in the past, for the past can exert a long shadow on attitudes and values. Actions are constrained by income, time, imperfect memory and calculating capacities, and other limited resources, and also by the available opportunities in the economy and elsewhere. These opportunities are largely determined by the private and collective actions of other individuals and organizations. Different constraints are decisive for different situations, but the most fundamental constraint is limited time. Economic and medical progress have greatly increased length of life, but not the physical flow of time itself, which always restricts everyone to twenty-four hours per day. So while goods and services have expended enormously in rich countries, the total time available to consume has not. Thus, wants remain unsatisfied in rich countries as well as in poor ones.  For while the growing abundance of goods may reduce the value of additional goods, time becomes more valuable as goods become more abundant. Utility maximization is of no relevance in a Utopia where everyone’s needs are fully satisfied, but the constant flow of time makes such a Utopia impossible. Read the full lecture here &gt; FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Twitter logo is seen at the New York Stock Exchange before the company's IPO in New York(Reuters) - U.S. micro-blogging company Twitter Inc still looks overpriced even after a 47 percent drop from its late December high of $74, according to an article in the May 5 edition of Barron's. Officials at Twitter were not immediately available for comment. The Barron's article said Twitter trades at a "big premium" to other Internet stocks based on its price/sales ratio, and its user growth is slowing. The company "appears to be a long way from profitability, based on conservative accounting that properly treats as an expense its massive stock-based compensation to employees," the article said. Shares of Twitter, which ended on Friday at $39.02, could drop toward $30, which would still leave it trading at a premium to Facebook Inc on a price/sales ratio, Barron's said. The number of U.S. users at 57 million appears to be plateauing despite efforts to make Twitter more appealing, Barron's said, warning that "Twitter's quirky format may make it tough for it to become a mass-market medium like the more user-friendly Facebook." (Reporting by Scott DiSavino; Editing by Paul Simao) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Dinuka LiyanawatteAustralian gambling tycoon James Packer looks on during day two of the Commonwealth Business Forum in Colombo November 13, 2013.Ed note: On Sunday, gaming billionaire James Packer and his friend Gvid Gyngell got into a fistfight in the middle of the street in Sydney. There was a bidding war for the photos, which was ultimately won by News Corp. Here's the report from our colleagues at Business Insider Australia. You’ve probably seen the first photos by now of the punch-up the country is talking about: billionaire James Packer and his lifelong mate David Gyngell going at it like UFC fighters in Bondi yesterday afternoon. News Corp websites released some watermarked pictures today, but what we’ve seen so far are just teasers. Other photos – dozens of them – are much more graphic and there’s an action-packed, expletive-laden video to come as well. News Corp is understood to have paid around $200,000 for exclusive rights to the pictures and video, and you’ll see the first of them tomorrow. Today James Packer had an amazing stream of visitors to his home in Bondi, starting with Gyngell himself this morning. A short time later the two released a joint statement affirming their friendship but saying they wouldn’t be commenting further on the fight. Their friendship has deteriorated in the aftermath Packer and his ex-wife Erica divorcing last year. Gyngell was best man at the wedding. Other visitors to Packer’s home included Lachlan Murdoch, the co-chairman of News Corp, a long-time friend of Packer and Gyngell, whose company bought the exclusive rights to the photos which will be all over News Corp papers tomorrow. Also visiting Packer’s home was his long-serving lieutenant, Crown deputy chair and former PBL CEO John Alexander, and then Today show co-host Karl Stefanovic. Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
