Thomson ReutersWang Jianlin, chairman of Chinese property developer Dalian Wanda Group, answers a question in QingdaoHONG KONG (Reuters) - Chinese real estate developer Dalian Wanda Commercial Properties, a unit of billionaire Wang Jianlin's Dalian Wanda Group, will seek approval from Hong Kong's bourse for an up to $6 billion initial public offering on Monday, IFR reported late on Wednesday citing sources familiar with the plans. The deal is still expected to happen before the end of 2014, a separate source with direct knowledge of the plans said on Thursday. "The plan to list this year has not changed," said the source, who declined to be identified because details of the IPO aren't yet public. Dalian Wanda Commercial Properties received approval from China's securities regulator for the IPO, clearing the way for the company to seek the green light from the Hong Kong stock exchange later this week for the deal, IFR, a Thomson Reuters publication, reported on Monday. China International Capital Corp (CICC) and HSBC were hired as sponsors of the IPO, with Bank of America Merrill Lynch, BOC International, Goldman Sachs and UBS also leading the transaction, IFR said.  (Reporting by Fiona Lau and Ken Wang of IFR and Elzio Barreto; Additional reporting by Beijing newsroom; Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Blue moon in her eyesWhite truffle risottoGold is an incredibly expensive substance. But many things are worth more than their weight in gold. Ranging from foods to creams to gems to things the average person can't fathom, we pulled together a list of 19 of the most expensive items in the world. Think we missed something? Let us know in the comments. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPedestrians with umbrellas walk past an electronic board showing Japan's Nikkei average and the exchange rates between the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar, outside a brokerage in TokyoBy Hideyuki Sano TOKYO (Reuters) - Asian stocks inched higher on Thursday as the prospect of further stimulus from central banks in the region and Europe eclipsed disappointing U.S. data, which tripped up the dollar. Oil prices tumbled more than one percent to a four-year low as hopes for curbs in output by the OPEC faded. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan advanced 0.3 percent though Japan's Nikkei retreated 0.4 percent on the yen's rebound. "I expect a moderate (equities) rally to continue, perhaps led by European shares given signs of recovery there," said Soichiro Monji, chief strategist at Daiwa SB Investments. European shares rose on Wednesday, with Germany's blue chip DAX index advancing for the 10th straight session, its longest such streak in 18 months, as investors bet on further monetary stimulus from the European Central Bank. Investors have also been encouraged by last week's unexpected rate cuts in China and a surprise expansion of monetary stimulus by the Bank of Japan at the end of October, as policymakers in the two countries stepped up efforts to reenergize their respective economies. BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda has indicated the bank is ready to do more to beat off deflation, and analysts expect the People's Bank of China to take further steps to revive flagging growth in the world's second-biggest economy. On Wall Street, stocks rose on Wednesday thanks to gains in tech shares, with the S&amp;P 500 and Dow industrials closing at records despite the disappointing U.S. economic data. Durable good orders, a measure of business spending plans, fell for a second straight month, consumer spending rose less than expected and new home sales also unexpectedly fell. A separate report from the Labor Department showed initial claims for state unemployment benefits rose above the 300,000 threshold last week for the first time since early September. All of which helped to push down U.S. debt yields, with 10-year notes yield hitting a five-week low of 2.229 percent on Wednesday. The dollar stepped back further from a 4 1/2-year peak against a basket of currencies hit on Monday. The dollar index stood at 87.670 versus Monday's peak of 88.440. The U.S. currency fetched 117.65 yen, off last week's seven-year high of 118.98 yen while the euro traded at $1.2505, having extended its recovery from a low of $1.23595 on Monday. Still, the common currency is likely to be hemmed in by expectations that the ECB could start buying sovereign debt just as some of the world's major banks have done. Vitor Constancio, the central bank's vice president, said on Wednesday the ECB might decide to do so as early as the first quarter of next year, in the clearest indication yet from an ECB policymaker on the timing of any quantitative easing. He also suggested the ECB is likely to buy government bonds broadly in proportion to the size of the euro zone's 18 economies. Oil prices fell on Wednesday after OPEC signaled that it would hold off making any major production cuts this week. OPEC Gulf oil producers have reached a consensus not to cut oil output when OPEC meets on Thursday, a Gulf OPEC delegate told Reuters.. U.S. crude futures hit a fresh low of $72.87 per barrel, their lowest level since September 2010. Trading in financial and commodity markets is expected to be subdued on Thursday as U.S. financial markets are shut for Thanksgiving day.  (Editing by Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
As part of its annual World Ultra Wealth Report, wealth intelligence firm Wealth-X created a map showing which US states are home to the most super-rich people (defined as those with $30 million or more in assets). Some states have more ultra-high-net-worth (UHNW) individuals than major countries. Wealth-X found that California had more super rich people than the United Kingdom (13,445 v. 11,510); New York had more than India (9,530 v. 8,595); and Texas had more than Canada (6,510 v. 5,305). The numbers in the grey circles show how many UHNW individuals live in each state; colors indicate change in that number from 2013.Wealth-X In 2014, the world’s UHNW population grew 6% to 211,275, and that group's collective wealth increased 7% to nearly $30 trillion, according to Wealth-X. Although these individuals account for only 0.004% of the world’s adult population, they control almost 13% of the world’s total wealth.  "Even though North America was strongly affected by the Global Financial Crisis, recovery for the region’s wealthiest was swift," the report noted. The chart below shows how North America's UHNW population and their wealth have grown (and are projected to grow) in this decade.Wealth-X   FREE AppDownload
Argentina's president, Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, made her first public appearance on Tuesday since being hospitalized more than three weeks ago with a bacterial infection.  She took the opportunity to address her critics and assure her audience that she would protect her country's interests. Produced by Devan Joseph. Video courtesy of Associated Press. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen has said the tenor of economic data will decide when the U.S. central bank raises interest rates. Surprisingly, a data analysis based on Yellen's own priorities points to a rate increase by the end of this year. Yellen has cautioned that the economic models built for policymakers amount to mere guideposts in a complicated decision-making process. But she also has placed special emphasis on a set of equations for what she dubbed in a November 2012 speech as "optimal policy" or "optimal control." The equations mimic the churning of a vast economy and project a rate path that gives equal importance to meeting the Fed's twin goals of maximum employment and stable prices. Last Friday, Fed economists said in a note that they had updated the model, and the new version suggests the central bank should tighten policy enough to have the federal funds rate average 0.33 percent in the October-December period of this year. The Fed has kept the rate, which governs overnight lending between banks, in a zero to 0.25 percent range since late-2008. However, it's clear the Fed is not following this model. Several top officials have said they are not likely to bump rates up until the middle of next year, and to meet the 0.33 percent average would require an extremely sharp hike at the Fed's next and last meeting of the year on Dec. 16-17. Even the note's authors are wary of policymakers leaning too heavily on their calculation because economic models by nature oversimplify a complex world. The assumptions that go into them can easily prove to be wrong. "(Optimal control) paths should be treated with appropriate caution as a guide to actual policy," Fed economists Flint Brayton, Thomas Laubach and David Reifschneider wrote. ((http://www.federalreserve.gov/econresdata/notes/feds-notes/2014/optimal-control-monetary-policy-in-frbus-20141121.html)) Yellen made waves in the 2012 speech by describing a computer simulation of optimal policy that suggested waiting to raise the fed funds rate until around the first half of 2016 to more quickly push down unemployment. Under this plan, inflation would be allowed to run above target for several years. But as it turned out, the jobless rate came down more quickly than Yellen or most anyone else anticipated, while inflation has persisted well below the Fed's 2 percent target. That has puzzled economists as tightening labor markets are supposed to push prices higher. In a second note, another group of Fed economists said they had tweaked the Fed's flagship economic model to make inflation less sensitive to changes in labor market slack. Brayton, Laubach and Reifschneider re-ran Yellen's 2012 computer simulation with minor changes and using the updated flagship model, which spit out an earlier liftoff for rates. While they did not release a full methodology of the simulation, earlier this month the Fed responded to a Freedom of Information Act request from Reuters by releasing the computer programs Yellen used to calculate optimal policy in her 2012 speech, which was made when she was the Fed's vice chair. Those documents can be downloaded at the following links: http://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/assets/eviews/2014-352-Lange-110614.pdf http://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/assets/eviews/Reuters Package_zip.zip   (Reporting by Jason Lange; Editing by Tim Ahmann and Paul Simao) FREE AppDownload
Bob Lutz is a legend in the auto industry. He worked at BMW and also for Lee Iaccoca, the guy who saw Chrysler through a major crisis in the late 1970s (Lutz arrived in the 1980s). A former Marine, he flies fighter jets and isn't afraid to speak his mind. He finished up his career at General Motors as the "product czar," trying to inject some emotion into a company that's often been better known for a corporate culture that prefers to count beans. His publisher recently brought out the paperback edition of his book, "Icons and Idiots: Straight Talk on Leadership." Business Insider ran an except, and I talked with Lutz about a wide variety of topics at the time of publication. Among them was the strange performance of GM's stock. Since the company's emergence from bankruptcy and $20-billion IPO in 2010, shares have been flat when they haven't been down. The stock really cratered in mid-2012 before ascending to around $40 in late 2013. But since then the trend has been down. Down. And more down.  These days, shares are trading around $30. This is weird. GM has made tons of money since the bankruptcy — a financial performance that defies what most assumed would be a profoundly negative effect of the recent massive ignition switch recall (recall costs have taken a toll on the bottom line, however.)Yahoo Finance But many Wall Street analysts dislike the stock. And Lutz thinks he knows why. "Analysts are highly numerous, young, and they performed beautifully [in college]," he said. "They can look at sea of numbers, but they don’t really understand the business." Is he right? Quite possibly. Wall Street likes volatility, and GM isn't a company that's designed to deliver it, either in the markets or the marketplace. The company controls about 20% of the U. market for cars and trucks, pretty much divides the highly profitable full-size pickup truck segment with Ford, and continues to have a very broad portfolio of vehicles — something for just about everybody. The company is good at making cars. Through its finance arm, GM Financial, it's also good at lending people money to buy those cars.  What it isn't good at is posting double-digit growth rates for its valuation. And this is the nature of the business. It's not like GM is going to suddenly go from 20% US market share to 30% market share. Chrysler would have to disappear to even set up such a possibility.  For GM, the game is to retain existing customers, "conquest" a certain percentage of customers from other automakers every year, and pursue growth in China, its best foreign market. GM does pay a nearly 4% dividend, so beleaguered holders of the stock are at least being paid for their trouble.  But having watched the company closely since before the bankruptcy, it's far from clear to me that GM stock is ever going to start pushing toward new highs (I don't own any, by the way). Actually, the business doesn't really seem optimized to do that. This is a disconnect one just has to get used to.  FREE AppDownload
TASER InternationalTaser's AXON body-mounted camera, which analysts think will be in demand after the events in Ferguson, Missouri.Shares of Taser International gained more than 6% on Wednesday after the company announced the Winston-Salem police department ordered more than 600 body cameras from the company. In a release Wednesday, Taser said the Winston-Salem police department would buy 623 AXON body-worn video cameras and that the order was received during the fourth quarter.  Taser makes body cameras and other safety gear. The latest order from the Winston-Salem department follows an initial order of 293 cameras made in July. Back in the summer, shares of Taser rallied after protests in Ferguson, Missouri, first broke out following the shooting death of Michael Brown by Ferguson police officer Darren Wilson. Protests have again broken out in Ferguson and across the country after a grand jury on Monday said it would not indict Wilson for his role in the death of Brown. In August, some in the market attributed the strength in Taser shares to speculation that more police departments around the country would purchase the company's body cameras for more widespread use among their officers.  In addition to Wednesday's rally, Taser shares have gained more than 40% in the past month. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
VIENNA (Reuters) - OPEC Gulf oil producers will not propose an output cut on Thursday, reducing the likelihood of joint action by OPEC to prop up prices that have sunk by a third since June. "The GCC reached a consensus," Saudi Arabian Oil MinisterAli al-Naimi told reporters, referring to the Gulf Cooperation Council which includes Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates. "We are very confident that OPEC will have a unified position." "The power of convincing will prevail tomorrow ... I am confident that OPEC is capable of taking a very unified position," Naimi added. A Gulf OPEC delegate told Reuters the GCC had reached a consensus not to cut oil output. Three OPEC delegates separately told Reuters they believed OPEC was unlikely to take any action when the 12-member organisation meets on Thursday after Russia said it would not cut output in tandem. The OPEC meeting will be one of its most crucial in recent years, with oil having tumbled to below $78 a barrel due to the U.S. shale boom and slower economic growth in China and Europe. Cutting output unilaterally would effectively mean for OPEC, which accounts for a third of global oil output, a further loss of market share to North American shale oil producers. If OPEC decided against cutting and rolled over existing output levels on Thursday, that would effectively mean a price war that the Saudis and other Gulf producers could withstand due to their large foreign-exchange reserves. Other members, such as Venezuela or Iran, would find it much more difficult. Brent crude &lt;LCOc1&gt; was trading down 73 cents at $77.60 a barrel at 1919 GMT. Naimi said earlier on Wednesday he expected the oil market "to stabilise itself eventually", after talks with non-OPEC member Russia on Tuesday yielded no pledge from Moscow to tackle a global oil glut jointly. The UAE sided with Naimi, saying oil prices would soon stabilise, while ramping up pressure on non-OPEC nations. "This is not a crisis that requires us to panic ... we have seen (prices) way lower," UAE Oil Minister Suhail bin Mohammed al-Mazroui told Reuters. "The oversupply came from the evolution of the unconventional oil production ... I think everyone needs to play a role in balancing the market, not OPEC unilaterally," he said. Iranian Oil Minister Bijan Zangeneh said some OPEC members, although not Iran, were now gearing up for a battle over market share. "Some OPEC members believe that this is the time where we need to defend market share ... All the experts in the market believe we have oversupply in the market and next year we will have more oversupply," he added. The group could opt to roll over output levels but stress the importance of better compliance, while also agreeing to hold an extraordinary meeting if prices keep falling, a Gulf OPEC delegate and several OPEC watchers said. Among the members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, Venezuela and Iraq have called for output cuts. OPEC's traditional price hawk Iran said on Wednesday its views were now close to those of Saudi Arabia. Zangeneh said there was unity inside OPEC to "monitor the market carefully" but made no mention of a cut. "The onslaught of North American shale oil has drastically undermined OPEC’s position and reduced its market share," said Dr. Gary Ross, chief executive of PIRA Energy Group. Russia, which produces 10.5 million barrels per day (bpd) or 11 percent of global oil, came to Tuesday's meeting amid hints it might agree to cut output as it suffers from oil's price fall and Western sanctions over Moscow's actions in Ukraine. But as that meeting with Naimi and officials from Venezuela and non-OPEC member Mexico ended, Russia's most influential oil official, state firm Rosneft's &lt;ROSN.MM&gt; head Igor Sechin, emerged with a surprise message - Russia will not reduce output even if oil falls to $60 per barrel. Sechin added that he expected low oil prices to do more damage to producing nations with higher costs, in a clear reference to the U.S. shale boom. On Wednesday, Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak said he expected the country's output to be flat next year. Many at OPEC were surprised by Sechin's suggestion that Russia - in desperate need of oil prices above $100 per barrel to balance its budget - was ready for a price war. "Gulf states are less bothered about a price drop compared to other OPEC members," an OPEC source close to Gulf thinking said. OPEC publications have shown that global supply will exceed demand by more than 1 million bpd in the first half of next year. While the statistics speak in favour of a cut, the build-up to the OPEC meeting has seen one of the most heated debates in years about the next policy step for the group. "The idea of unleashing a price war against U.S. shale oil seems strange to me. I doubt you can win this battle as most U.S. oil producers are hedging a lot of their output," said a top oil executive visiting Vienna for talks with OPEC ministers. (Additional reporting by David Sheppard, Dmitry Zhdannikov and Shadia Nasralla; Writing by Dmitry Zhdannikov; Editing by Dale Hudson) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsAs expected, it was a quiet day on Wall Street ahead of the Thanksgiving holiday, which will see markets in the US close for the day on Thursday, but with a small gain both the S&amp;P 500 and the Dow made fresh all-time highs. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. It was a quiet day for the averages ahead of the holiday, but the markets had to digest a ton of economic data this morning, with data points covering employment, manufacturing, inflation, consumer confidence and the housing market. By making a fresh all-time high on Wednesday, the S&amp;P 500 hit a new record close for the 47th time this year. 2. On the labor front, the weekly report on initial jobless claims showed that claims rose to 313,000 last week, up from 291,000 the prior week. Expectations were for claims to come in at 288,000. The four-week moving average of claims also rose to 294,000 from 287,000 last week, but Derek Lindsey at BNP Paribas said that while we've seen an increase in four-week trend the last three weeks, claims remain relatively low.  3. The October report on personal income and spending was released, showing that both measures rose 0.2% compared to the prior month, a bit less than expected. This report also contained the latest personal consumption expenditures reading, which showed that consumer prices rose 0.1% month-on-month in October, and 0.2% when stripping out the more volatile food and energy measures. PCE is the Federal Reserve's preferred measure of inflation. 4. Consumer confidence remained at a seven-year high, with the University of Michigan's final reading on November consumer confidence coming in at 88.8, the highest final reading since July 2007. This was, however, below expectations for a reading of 90.0 and below the preliminary 89.4 reading earlier this month. 5. Housing data disappointed on Wednesday. The pace of new home sales rose 0.7% in October to an annualized pace of 458,000 units, below the pace of 471,000 that was forecast by economists. According to the Census Bureau, in October there were 212,000 new houses for sale, representing a 5.6 month supply at the current pace of sales. The number of pending home sales also declined in October, falling 1.1% month-on-month against expectations for an increase of 0.5%.  6. The October Chicago PMI report came in at 60.8, below expectations but still indicating a solid pace of manufacturing activity in the midwest. Commenting on the report, Philip Uglow, chief economist at MNI Indicators said that following last month's sharp rise in the index, an easing wasn't a surprise, but "Overall the trend remains firm and activity looks set to pick up in Q4 from Q3." 7. Durable goods order rose 0.4% in October, an unexpected increase after two straight months of declines, and Wednesday's headline reading was much better than the 0.6% decline expected by economists. But this headline number has been volatile, and when stripping out transportation equipment from Wednesday's report, orders fell 0.9% in October.  8. Thursday is Thanksgiving in the US, so markets here will be closed, but OPEC, or the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, is set to hold its latest meeting in Vienna on Thursday. We have your full preview here, but the broad outline is that the market is looking for any indication that OPEC reaches an agreement on cutting oil production in an effort to combat falling oil prices, which have been hurt by a supply glut, among other factors.  9. Apple shares crossed the $700 billion threshold for the first time on Tuesday, but after this decline, Business Insider's Jay Yarow isn't interested in when the company will go to $800 billion, but if a $1 trillion market cap is in the cards for Apple. Hint: Apple will probably need to sell a lot more iPhones.  10. We're closing in on the end of 2014, and while there is still a month to go, here's a quick overview of how every major asset class has performed in 2014. The three biggest winners? Stocks in India, Shanghai, and the S&amp;P 500.  Don't Miss: This Slide Is Scary » FREE AppDownload
Stack SocialBooze is a great gift idea for anyone old enough to drink. Choosing the right bottle, however, can be a drag. There are so many types and flavor profiles, the wrong choice could be the difference between a great gift and a forgettable one. Flaviar, a liquor sampler delivery service, can make things easier. It's a great way to discover and explore fine alcohol, from craft batches to well-known brands, and it's currently available with a 44% discount. Stack Commerce You'll receive a hand-sealed tasting box with five different spirits, from scotch to cognac to rum. You'll also get access to the School of Spirits e-learning course to expand your knowledge. If you're giving this as a gift, keep the course for yourself so you sound smarter than you are. It's a great idea for any aficionado or novice who wants to explore new tastes.   Get 44% off the Top Shelf Liquor Tasting Pack ($33.99 incl. shipping) Here's exactly what you'll get: Get 44% off the Top Shelf Liquor Tasting Pack ($33.99 incl. shipping) Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Wal-Mart Stores Inc company distribution center in Bentonville(Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc said it had dismissed several executives in China as part of an effort to lower costs in the country, where it has been grappling with slower sales and tough price competition. Wal-Mart spokeswoman Brooke Buchanan said several executives were let go to help "create a more efficient structure that positions our business competitively for the future." Buchanan did not disclose further details, such as the number of people dismissed or their ranks. Bloomberg reported earlier that about 30 senior executives, including directors and vice presidents from Wal-Mart China and Sam's Club China, had been dismissed. Walmart reported a 0.8 percent fall in China sales during the quarter to Oct. 31, which it attributed to government austerity measures and deflation. Wal-Mart has faced setbacks in China, including an embarrassing food safety scandal in which its popular "Five Spice" donkey meat was found to have traces of fox meat. It is building its own distribution centers to manage product quality. Last October Wal-Mart said it planned to open 110 facilities in China between 2014 and 2016, while closing some outlets as part of an overhaul of its business there.   (reporting by Nathan Layne; Editing by David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
From Deutsche Bank's "The House View" slide deck comes this chart of the winners and losers of the market in 2014 to date. The colored bars are year-to-date total returns, while the black diamonds are returns since September 18, the pre-sell-off peak. Indian, Chinese, and to some extent US stocks were the place to be. If you were long yen, rubles, or any commodity you may have gotten crushed. Good news, though: There's still a month left in 2014 to turn it around.Deutsche Bank Research
In the Japanese coastal city of Takamatsu, it's all about udon noodles. Some 800 udon restaurants serve the 400,000 city residents. Every day, a maximum of 100,000 portions of udon noodles are produced. Produced by Devan Joseph. Narrated by Graham Flanagan. Video courtesy of Associated Press.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
An interesting recent case in the High Court has had to address an issue which confronts all wealthy families, namely the extent to which children should be aware of the extent of the wealth of their parents and the amount of their own entitlements and expectations. In the case, which concerned the variation of certain family trusts, the judge imposed reporting restrictions to protect the identity of five children all aged under ten, who were beneficiaries. The family was very wealthy and the rationale for the ruling was that if children became aware of their wealth it would: • adversely affect their wellbeing;• create a sense of entitlement; and• hinder them enjoying as normal a lifestyle as possible. The decision seems admirable in its recognition of the dangers that knowledge of existing and future wealth can bring. However it only related to these court proceedings, and of course those children will have many other ways of discovering their financial position in the years ahead. That raises the question of whether - and the extent to which - trust beneficiaries can, for their own benefit, be kept in ignorance of the assets and their value being held for them. While the children are under the age of eighteen, there is no need for them to be given any information as to what they are entitled to either then or in the future. Once they reach adulthood, the matter will turn entirely on the type of trust involved. 1. Bare trust. This is a simple structure where the trustee is only holding the assets on behalf of the beneficiary, who is legally entitled to them. It would be wrong for the beneficiary not to know what they own beneficially, although parents and trustees may in practice just say 'there is something here for you, and it is not really for you to use just yet' and be vague about the detail. Any income will no doubt have to be shown on the beneficiary's personal tax return, so that information at least will be obvious to the beneficiary. The same situation would apply where the assets were in the person's own name, but somehow being looked after in some way for them. 2. Life interest trust. This is where a beneficiary is entitled for the time being, and sometimes for life, to the income from all or part of the trust capital. The amount of that income must be paid over and would thus become clear to the beneficiary. It is the case that trustees may sometimes retain income on the beneficiary's behalf, but that is not really correct practice. The beneficiary would be entitled to information about the trust so trustees would not be able to keep matters secret, certainly in the face of a determined beneficiary. 3. Discretionary. Here the individual beneficiary has no entitlement as such to any fixed part of the trust; he or she gets what the trustees decide, and when. It is usually said that the only right such a beneficiary has is a right to be considered as a potential recipient of funds, and no more. Clearly therefore a discretionary trust offers the greatest protection in this context. There are limits to what can be put into such a trust by a lifetime gift but, as in the court case in question, where business (or agricultural) assets are involved there is relief from inheritance tax and that means that there is virtually no such limit on what can be transferred to trust. 4. Lifetime Trusts. Virtually all forms of lifetime trusts are treated in the same way for inheritance tax, so a fully discretionary arrangement would often be chosen precisely for the element of confidentiality, along with its other main attribute, namely that all aspects of the distribution of the assets are entirely in the control of the trustees. 5. Trusts in Wills. When deciding on the appropriate trust structure to contain in a will passing on assets, the right approach may be less obvious. This is because the inheritance tax treatment of interest in possession trusts and discretionary trusts is different when they are established by a will, the former essentially not being subject to tax until the interest ends or the beneficiary dies, whereas a discretionary arrangement would be subject to a tax charge every ten years. These are quite significant differences and are likely to take priority in the decision-making process. In any event, the issue of the amount of information to be given to younger children may be less of an issue, granted that the will is likely in most cases to be implemented at a time when the children are older, perhaps fully adult. A final thought. While many parents attempt to minimise the information children are given, another approach is actually to involve them in family financial matters, to increase their awareness of the issues and to develop their financial maturity and knowledge. After all, they will have to be involved fully with their wealth at some stage of their lives. There is a lot to be said for such an approach, but it clearly it would not be suitable for the five children under the age of ten whose welfare was being considered by the court in the case that prompted these observations. Jeremy Passmore is a partner at Thomson Snell &amp; Passmore FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisers. Cheap Oil Is Giving India A Huge Boost (Investment News) "The government of India provides a lot of oil subsidies so that it can be sold domestically at a lower price. But India also has a high current account deficit, and lower oil prices helps that deficit, which is good for India's budget," Morningstar analyst Patricia Oey said. "The lower oil prices help India's government deal with some of those challenges by taking some of the financial burden off the oil subsidies. Cheaper oil also introduces a trickle-down effect on inflationary pressure on food and other commodities," writes Jeff Benjamin. However, although falling oil prices are helping India's economy and its stock market, advisers should keep in mind that investing in India can still be volatile because of political turbulence, adds Benjamin. Nickel 'Speaks Volumes' About The Economic Recovery (Advisor Perspectives)  "...by far the biggest winner for the week was the economically sensitive metal Nickel (+7.38%)! I think this speaks volumes about the strength of the economic recovery and [...] for every 0.50% slowdown in the world's economic growth, it only affects US GDP growth by 0.13%," writes Jeffrey Saut. 2015 Will See Gains For Global Stocks (Charles Schwab) 2015 will see gains for global stocks, according to Charles Schwab analysts. "The global economy may be boosted by the new stimulus from central banks in Europe and China. It may also get a push from fiscal policy as budgets are loosened. For example, Japan said it would delay its planned 2015 tax increase, China announced new infrastructure projects, and the French and Italian budget battles appear to be over," writes Jeffrey Kleintop. The bigger economies will be the main growth contributors, including the recovering Japanese economy and the strong US economy. However, although the stocks are expected to perform well, volatility is expected to increase, too. Geopolitics, natural disasters, and pandemics could all contribute to increased volatility. Citigroup Needs To Pay $15 Million Because Of Research Leaks (Think Advisor) Citigroup was ordered to pay $15 million for "failing over a nine-year period to adequately supervise communications between its equity research analysts and its clients as well as Citigroup sales and trading staff, which resulted in improper access to nonpublic research information," reports Melanie Waddell. Specifically, Citigroup failed to supervise "idea dinners" where equity analysts met with clients and sales and trading members. Over these dinners, everyone discussed stock picks, "which, in some instances, were inconsistent with the analysts' published research," reports Waddell. Citigroup neither admitted nor denied the chargers.  Advisors Can Get In Trouble For Their Tweets (Financial Advisor Magazine) Senior counsel at the SEC Katy Gordon announced that financial advisors might now start getting in trouble for not deleting misleading tweets and other social media posts. "Given the multitude of posts advisor employees and their followers make to social media sites, Gordon said her division at the SEC will be reasonable for judging how quickly a firm needs to remove a deceptive tweet or response," reports Ted Knutson. However, the SEC will be relatively lenient when it comes to timing. If an advisor posts "something misleading" and it's not deleted "30 seconds after," it's not a huge issue. The bigger problem, according to Gordon, is when advisors keep up intentionally misleading posts up for weeks. FREE AppDownload
Happy Holidays! Thursday marks the Thanksgiving holiday in the US. And to celebrate, Americans eat lots of one animal: turkey. And while Americans eat millions of pounds of turkey each year, there are fewer than 5,000 American workers employed in the turkey production industry.  According to data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the state with the most workers in the turkey industry is Minnesota, with 957 employees in the industry. Following Minnesota are North Carolina, Missouri, and California.  To celebrate Thursday's holiday, here's the BLS' chart ranking the turkey production states. BLS FREE AppDownload
A confluence of factors helped U.S. equities rebound more than 12% from their October low, pushing valuations to their highest level since 2009. Besides extraordinary foreign central bank monetary stimulus (with the latest shot of adrenaline coming from China) and a fresh wave of mergers and acquisitions, I discuss in my new weekly commentary how low and stable U.S. interest rates are another significant driver of the rally. Income-oriented stocks have appreciated considerably and now appear overvalued as investors continue their reach for income in this low yield environment. Reasons why U.S. rates are so low Despite the two best back-to-back quarters of economic growth since 2003, U.S. long-term yields refuse to budge. Declining inflation expectations are one reason yields are remaining so low, and another reason is yields in other developed countries are even lower. With German and Japanese bond yields well below 1%, a 2.35% yield on a 10-year U.S. Treasury seems attractive in comparison. This entices investors to buy Treasuries, supporting their prices and keeping yields low. Yield Seekers Pushing Up Prices for REITs, Defensive Stocks Thus, investors in need of income continue to look for alternatives. One manifestation of this is a strong bid for so-called “defensive” equities, or stocks with low volatility and a high dividend yield. Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) are one example of this trend. The thirst for yield has pushed the Dow Jones Select REIT Index up about 20% year-to-date, roughly twice the return of the S&amp;P 500. We see a similar appetite for income with other yield oriented sectors of the stock market, notably utilities and consumer staples. While the thirst for yield is understandable, it may be leading investors to overpay and take on hidden risks. The defensive sectors all sport aggressive valuations and carry hidden duration, or interest rate sensitivity. If interest rates rise even modestly in 2015––as we expect they will––these sectors are likely to perform poorly, as their valuations are particularly sensitive to rate rises. Instead of taking on more exposure to these parts of the market, we would prefer to source our yield from other places, including U.S. high yield bonds and more cyclical sectors of the equity market, which could be poised to benefit from an improving economy.   Source: Bloomberg. FREE AppDownload
Apple's stock is once again on a tear.  It's up 48% this year, surging past a $700 billion valuation.  It's a stunning reversal for the company. In April 2013, Wall Street had given up on Apple. The stock was less than half what it trades for today. People thought the iPhone was done. They thought Apple was doomed. The New York Times was comparing Tim Cook to Steve Ballmer.  Today, all that seems preposterous. The iPhone 6 is a blockbuster hit. On its most recent earnings call, Apple said it was selling every single iPhone 6 it could make. And Apple can make a lot of iPhones. The most recent projection from Ming-Chi Kuo, an analyst at KGI Securities who has an excellent track record on Apple products, says Apple is going to sell 71.5 million iPhones during the holiday quarter. If, by some miracle, Apple sells that many iPhones, it would be a whopping 40% year-over-year jump. Again, remember that people truly believed the iPhone opportunity was over for Apple. They thought Apple was going to get by only on upgrades from current users. There is, naturally, some fear that this supercycle for the iPhone can last only so long. Eventually Apple will sell as many iPhones as possible, and it will hit a wall. But Apple has proved that the iPhone is strong product that can continue to grow despite expectations for a drop-off. And unlike with the iPhone 5, the most recent product to generate this sort of excitement for Apple, Apple has a few tricks up its sleeve. It is planning to release the Apple Watch at the start of next year. Morgan Stanley predicts Apple will sell 30 million units. With a conservative $400 average selling price for each watch sold, that's $12 billion in new revenue for Apple. Apple did $183 billion in sales last year, so that would be about a 7% sales bump from the Apple Watch. The rumor mill is speculating that Apple has a new iPad Pro coming, which could lead to new iPad sales. Though, truthfully, it might eat into Mac sales, so it's unlikely to result in massive gains for the company. Apple also has Apple Pay, which will lead to some small additional revenue. Even if you think the revenue gains from these new products are minimal, the psychological impact of new products rolling out from Apple is big. It's easy to see that once again, these are exciting times for Apple. The previous time Apple was rolling, everyone wanted to talk about it becoming a trillion-dollar company. During this run, we're not hearing a peep. Which is weird.  So, if nobody else wants to make the case for Apple going to a trillion, it looks like it's up to us! So here we go ... Shutterstock, Business InsiderApple has a price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio of ~18. During its previous run higher, the P/E was ~15, which is about in line with the historic average for stocks. So we will work with those two numbers for a valuation argument.  We could use another metric like price to sales, but Apple shares have been judged against earnings, not sales.  If Apple were to be worth a trillion dollars, given the current number of shares outstanding (5.86 billion), the stock would be trading at about $170 per share.  At $170 per share and a P/E of 18, Apple's earnings per share (EPS) would need to be $9.47, which roughly translates to $55.5 billion in net income.  At $170 per share and a P/E of 15, Apple's EPS would need to be $11.40, which translates to $66.9 billion in net income.  In Apple's 2014 fiscal year, it earned $6.49 earnings per share, or $39.5 billion. So, to get to $55.5 billion, Apple will have to grow earnings by about 40%. To get to $66.9 billion, Apple will have to grow earnings almost 70%.  Is it possible for Apple to grow its earnings that much? Anything is possible! REUTERS/Yuya ShinoCan Apple keep the iPhone hype going for the next five years?But here's some context: Google's trailing 12-month revenue is $67.9 billion.  To reach a market cap of $1 trillion, Apple will need to be earning nearly that amount in profit.   The highest ever annual profit was ExxonMobil in 2008, with the oil giant earning ~$50 billion in inflation-adjusted earnings, according to a Wikipedia page tracking profits. Apple would have to top that by $5 billion to $17 billion to become a trillion-dollar company.  That is going to be hard. And for Apple to get there, it will be all about the iPhone. After an explosion in earnings growth, Apple's profit growth has shrunk considerably.  In 2014, net income was up 6.6%. In 2013, it was actually down 11%. In 2012, it was up a whopping 61%, marking Apple's peak year for profits. The company earned $41.7 billion that year, making it the seventh-most-profitable year in corporate history. This, incidentally, is why P/E is the ratio that matters for Apple. When Apple's earnings fell, the stock fell. When Apple's earnings started growing, Apple's stock started growing.  People can grasp for all sorts of convoluted explanations for Apple's share price swings, but it really looks as if it's just that simple.  Business InsiderWhat happened for Apple in fiscal 2012 that made it so profitable? iPhone sales exploded. The iPad was refined and became mainstream, selling in big, profitable volumes.  In 2013, iPhone sales slowed, and Apple started selling the iPad Mini, which is less profitable than a big iPad or an iPhone. Analysts are predicting that Apple will bounce back in fiscal 2015 and have its biggest year ever. According to Yahoo Finance, consensus estimates for 2015 is $7.72 EPS, and in 2016 Wall Street expects EPS of $8.51.  If the company's share count stays the same, that translates to $45 billion in net income for 2015 and $49.9 billion in 2016. Both are impressive, but neither is big enough to get Apple to $1 trillion using the current P/E valuation. So, how do we get there? Apple's spectacular profit growth has been driven by the iPhone. The iPad and Mac will probably drive some profit growth. And the Apple Watch will also kick in some profit growth, but the iPhone is really going to drive Apple's bottom line. If it's going to become a $1 trillion company, it will need an additional $16 billion to $20 billion in net income from the iPhone business. Let's say Apple makes ~$225 in net profit per iPhone sold based on an average selling price north of $600 and a 35% margin. Apple would need incremental iPhone sales of 88.8 million units to add $20 billion in earnings. If Apple maintains its 18 P/E, then sales need to jump by only 71 million units, which would increase earnings by $16 billion. Growing iPhone sales by 88.8 million units would be tough. Apple sold 169 million iPhones in fiscal 2014, up 13%, or 19 million units from the prior year. Adding 88.8 million units would mean Apple sells 256 million phones annually, a 52% increase from today. BI IntelligenceThe iPhone business has slowed, which is to be expected.Even bullish analysts aren't predicting that sort of monstrous explosion in sales. Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster is predicting 194.5 million iPhones sold in fiscal 2015 and 199.5 million in fiscal 2016.  Both of those are well short of what Apple needs to hit $1 trillion. Apple has only ~12% of the global smartphone market, so it has plenty of room to grow. But growth is going to be tough for Apple because it sells an expensive phone, and the bulk of the growth in the smartphone market is from low- and mid-tier devices. But with enough time, it's not hard to make the case for Apple growing iPhone sales by 52%. So, there it is.  To get to $1 trillion, Apple needs to earn $55 billion to $66 billion in net income, which would shatter records.  To earn this much profit, Apple probably has to sell 70 million to 90 million more iPhones per year, which would be a challenge but not impossible.  How else can Apple get to a $1 trillion market cap?  Apple could take out shares with buybacks, thus bumping the stock further (fewer shares outstanding means more earnings per share). This wouldn't be easy. Assuming continued modest growth of its profits, it would have to buy ~1 billion shares, or 17% of the company, which is worth $118 billion.  Apple has $155 billion in cash and throws off ~$50 billion free cash flow annually, so it could afford to do that. But some might say this isn't the best use of the company's cash. REUTERS/Stephen LamWhat else? The Apple Watch could turn into a monster cash cow. The iPad could come roaring back. Apple could start selling a TV and make boatloads of cash on its TV. It could enter the internet of things business and generate crazy profits.  These all seem unlikely, but you never know.  Or, as the kids say these days, ¯\_(<U+30C4>)_/¯ . Further, stocks are weird! They can fluctuate up and down with no easy explanation. Investors could suddenly get hot for Apple and bid up the shares.  Or, the Apple Watch could be a dud, and investors will worry the company can't innovate, and dump shares — even if the company is growing.  Again, ¯\_(<U+30C4>)_/¯ . But assuming the stock behaves rationally, based on the numbers it's possible Apple gets to a trillion-dollar market cap. It's just going to take a few years and a lot of iPhones. REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson ¯\_(<U+30C4>)_/¯ FREE AppDownload
Oliver Burkeman is the author of "The Antidote: Happiness for People Who Can't Stand Positive Thinking." He came by Business Insider to talk about many topics, including Colin Camerer's surprising economic research on taxi drivers "daily income target" and how it influences supply and demand in New York City. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis Follow BI Video: On YouTube
When it comes to the U.S. airline industry, many investors borrow their wisdom from Warren Buffett. For years, the Berkshire Hathaway CEO has stuck to his conviction that investing in airlines is like “pouring money into a bottomless pit.” His reasoning, partly drawn from an inopportune trade for US Airways stock that he made in 1989, is that airlines tend to earn thin profit margins despite requiring heavy capital investment up front. Buffett’s stance on airlines certainly proved correct last decade as the recession, bankruptcies at four major carriers, and rising fuel prices led to billions of dollars in losses. But after years of bumpy rides, airlines are finally flying high, with three powerful dynamics acting in their favor. First, the U.S. economic recovery is gaining steam, boosting consumer demand. Second, the consolidation of American Airlines and US Airways, which closed last December and was announced in February, capped off a series of major mergers that have helped airlines eliminate money-losing routes and fill more seats. Third, the icing on the cake: the price of Brent crude has plummeted to $77 per barrel from $115 per barrel in June. That means cheaper fuel, which drives down costs and increases profit, especially since 30 percent of U.S. airlines’ operating expenses go towards fuel purchases. The industry is fortunate to have largely avoided a major potential snag: losses from fuel hedges. Carriers often enter into hedge contracts that allow them to obtain fuel at a fixed cost in order to guard against future price increases. But the strategy works both ways: contracts purchased before oil started falling in June have obligated airlines to buy fuel at above-market rates since. Because most U.S. airlines didn’t engage heavily in hedging this year, the five largest airlines are still capturing an average of 80 percent of the savings from lower fuel costs, according to Yates. The most fortunate has been American, which sold all its remaining fuel hedges after it merged with US Airways, an airline that had a policy to refrain from hedging. Delta and United do have hedging contracts that Credit Suisse expects will lead to losses of around $100 million each in the fourth quarter, but savings from the cheaper fuel they buy in the spot market will more than make up for the losses. The savings on fuel is a main reason most of the majors should report strong earnings in the fourth quarter. American Airlines, for example, expects to pay around $2.60 per gallon for fuel during this quarter, down from $2.98 in the third quarter and $3.06 in the fourth quarter of last year. Delta, United and Southwest are expecting to pay around $2.75 per gallon in the fourth quarter. The 15 cents per gallon that American will save compared to its competitors translates to $200 million in operating income, according to Julie Yates, an equity research analyst covering U.S. airlines at Credit Suisse. “The benefits of cheaper fuel are starting to accrue for airlines in the fourth quarter, with unhedged American recognizing the most significant tailwind,” Yates says. One key question is whether airlines will pass their lower operating costs onto consumers in the form of cheaper fares. So far, they’ve gone in the opposite direction: Expedia reported last month that Thanksgiving flights were 17 percent more expensive this year than in 2013. Yates doesn’t expect the upward move in prices to end because she says airlines tend to set their fares based on demand rather than fuel costs. In the past, when airlines have reduced fares amid falling oil prices, it’s been at times when the economy was also slowing and ticket sales were sluggish. This time, however, the economy is improving and traffic is up. As a result, Yates doesn’t even expect carriers to scale back bag fees and change fees that were implemented in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. “As long as demand is strong, they’re not going to take pricing down,” she says. With airlines holding onto the extra cash, they’ll be able to pay off more debt and give more back to shareholders in the form of dividends. In other words, the upside to investors is clear, especially since oil prices show no sign of rising anytime soon. The positive outlook for airlines may even be enough to rebuff Buffett’s famous pessimism. Credit Suisse already has. “This is now an investable industry,” Yates says. “And falling fuel is a nice tailwind.” FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsBuffalo TraceIs the great bourbon shortage really real?  After writing about it last week, we got some rather irate emails from readers, alleging that we were being fed a marketing scam. (There's some skepticism out there on the internet, as well.) After all, there's still plenty of bourbon in the liquor stores today!  First off, we reached out to Kentucky's Buffalo Trace Distillery, which has been the source of most of the "bourbon shortage" hype. "Yes, I can assure you the bourbon shortage is VERY real, not a ploy at all," a spokesperson told Business Insider "Our intent was never to get people worked up, or to start hoarding it, we did it out of a very genuine desire to let people know this was on the horizon." That said, there aren't a ton of specifics to be had, as the distillery won't give out sales numbers. However, the spokesperson did say that growth in the category was around 6.7 %. Citing numbers from the "industry's bible," the spokesperson said 17.6 million cases of whiskey were sold in 2013, and that figure "is expected to reach its 20 million case high in the next few years." The Beverage Information Group did not return requests for confirmation of these numbers. Casajump/FlickrThe whiskies that Buffalo Trace produces range from 4 years of ageing to 23 years. The shortage, according to the company, is coming from the ageing process: demand is a lot higher than they expected when they decided how many barrels to age 8, 10, 15, or 20 years ago. The shortage is likely coming in the older vintages, which is why a lot of people don't "see" it at the liquor store. The more popular, broadly available stuff is younger, and therefore not hugely affected, says Robert Haynes-Peterson, a longtime wine and spirits writer and editor. But nonetheless, he thinks the shortage is real. "It's not going to affect your everyday options - the lower level Johnny Walker or Jack Daniels or whatever," he told Business Insider, "But [it] definitely affected some of the smaller stuff (Blanton's, Boker's, Russell's Reserve, etc) and older stuff (6 year and over for bourbon, 15 year and over for Scotch)." Do you have more info on the whiskey shortage? Get in touch at sferro@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
Joshua Zirkiyev's favorite stocks are Tesla and Alibaba. He is in sixth grade. Zirkiyev has spent the last three years investing virtual portfolios in school, through the nonprofit SIFMA Foundation's Stock Market Game. The game, offered as part of the curriculum at Zirkiyev's Queens, New York middle school, allows over 600,000 students across the US in grades 4-12 to invest a hypothetical $100,000 portfolio. "The Stock Market Game teaches them so much that is a life skill," says Neme Alperstein, a Queens teacher who has been using the game for 28 years. "It's mathematics, it's investing, it's English/language arts. There isn't any dimension of this program that I can't use across the curriculum." Alperstein believes strongly in educating kids about personal finance. "It's critical," she says. "Their future, and their financial future, depend on just how financially literate they are." You could say that Joshua Zirkiyev is pretty financially literate, especially when it comes to investing. After three years, here are some of the investing lessons he's learned that could benefit us all: 1. Do your research. Zirkiyev can't stress enough how important it is to do your research on potential investments through charts and graphs on Google Finance, and he makes a good point: It's always smart to look into a potential investment before signing over the cash, and some experts specifically caution against buying "hot stocks" without looking into them more deeply. 2. Look at the long term. On the subject of researching investments — specifically stock in companies — Zirkiyev advises taking a wide view. "Look at the long term," he says, "how they've been doing since they started." A company's past doesn't necessarily indicate how it will do in the future, but he's right to look at the big picture. For most people, investing is a long-term game. 3. Know what's coming up next. While again, an investment's past performance can't predict future results, Zirkiyev highlights the fact that some of the most lucrative investments are in companies on the forefront of technological advancement, like his favored Tesla. "If some company is making typewriters, and there's Apple making this advanced technology, who would buy typewriters now?" he asks. 4. Invest your savings. "There's a higher chance, if you actually do research, that you will make more money [from investing]," he says. "With bank accounts, in one year, you just make 25 cents or something." It's usually not quite as dire as 25 cents, but he's right that the interest earned on a savings account pales in comparison to the potential earnings through the stock market, or even compared to relatively conservative investments like index funds. In fact, this last point is the subject of the essay he wrote that won the 2012 SIFMA Foundation InvestWrite competition, and which we've republished on Business Insider with permission. FREE AppDownload
BOSTON (Reuters) - Hedge fund mogul William Ackman told investors they could see a $6 billion payday when he closes the chapter on Allergan Inc., his firm's biggest bet of 2014. One week after Allergan agreed to sell itself to rival Actavis Plc., Ackman wrote in his quarterly investment letter that his Pershing Square Capital Management, the Botox-maker's biggest investor, still owns 26.6 million shares. At the end of the third quarter Ackman's $18 billion fund owned 28.87 million Allergan shares, a regulatory filing showed. While this isn't the deal the activist investor originally wanted - he had been pushing since April for rival Valeant buy Allergan - it will be lucrative all the same. "If we hold the shares until transaction closure, we will receive $3.4 billion in cash and 9.81 million shares of Actavis worth $2.6 billion at current value," the letter said. Currently Pershing Square's stake is worth $5.64 billion and the stock was trading at a $15.70 discount to the transaction value, which translates into about a 19 percent annualized return assuming the deal closes next April. Ackman's firm is having one of its best years ever with a 35 percent gain for the year through the end of October. The average hedge fund has gained only 2 percent and the broader S&amp;P 500 index has gained about 13 percent. The battle for Allergan has captivated Wall Street for months, with Pershing Square waging court battles and finally winning a special meeting where it planned to replace many Allergan directors. Speculation has mounted recently over what Ackman planned to do with his holding, especially after he announced a stake in animal health company Zoetis Inc two weeks ago. Sounding a conciliatory note, Ackman said he now supports the Actavis deal and said his team had been impressed with Actavis Chief Executive Officer Brent Saunders and his business plan for the combined company after a recent meeting. In terms of other investments, Ackman said he still likes his short bet against Herbalife Ltd, which he disclosed publicly for the first time two years ago, and said it paid off well during the third quarter when it added 3.2 percent to the fund's performance. He also said he still likes the investment in mortgage companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac but cautioned that litigation will likely drag on for some time and that he has committed about 3 percent of the firm's capital to the bets.   (Reporting by Svea Herbst-Bayliss and Caroline Humer; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and Jonathan Oatis) FREE AppDownload
As soon as the temperatures drop, people tend to give up on looking presentable and work-appropriate. But believe it or not, it's possible to survive the Polar Vortex and look stylish. Insider Picks has put together five coat trends for this winter — go ahead, and take your pick. Vera Wang, Max Mara, SAM.(LEFT: Vera Wang, $315; CENTER: Max Mara, $1390; RIGHT: SAM., $995) If you're a fan of the latest fur and faux fur styles, we recommend getting a neutral colored coat with a fur trim. A full fur coat is not only expensive, but can look incredibly tacky when worn in the wrong situation — such as running to brunch or the supermarket. But with a coat like one of these, you can capture the glamour of fur or faux fur. And because the coat's color is neutral, it won't look too gaudy. Burberry Brit, Burberry Brit, Canada Goose(LEFT: Burberry Brit $850; CENTER: Burberry Brit, $1595; RIGHT: Canada Goose, $850)  Utility meets style. It's impossible to survive the winter in a city like New York or Chicago without a super warm puffer jacket, but many of them are pretty unstylish. We recommend getting a dark neutral like navy or black so that you'll retain a hint of sophistication when staying warm. Pro-tip: you're going to want to get something that comes with a thick hood, and also covers down to the middle of your leg. Mackage, Steve Madden, Helmut Lang(LEFT: Mackage, $690; CENTER: Steve Madden, $150 $99.90; RIGHT: Helmut Lang, $1395) Leather jackets are a perennial winter staple. We recommend getting a leather-shearling jacket, or one that comes with a fur collar for extra warmth this season. Pro-tip: Buy your leather jacket a size or two up so that you can layer this sweaters under it. (And you don't want the leather to look like it's painted onto you, anyway.) MSGM, Topshop, Helene Berman(LEFT: MSGM, $2210; CENTER: Topshop, $110; RIGHT: Helene Berman, $350) Sometimes, it gets pretty gloomy in a uniform of black, navy, and gray in the winter. So we recommend investing in a camel or beige colored coat as well — they're nice change up from the sea of winter grays, but are still sophisticated enough for the work day. Burberry Brit, Lauren Ralph Lauren, kensie(LEFT: Burberry Brit, $1250 $837.49; CENTER: Lauren Ralph Lauren, $195; RIGHT: kensie, $288 $189.89) Peacoats are a great weekend coat option. They're not too formal looking, and are still versatile enough for everything from brunch to a nice dinner. Again, if you live somewhere particularly cold, it's a good idea to look for longer ones.  Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
BlissA lot of gifts women like are pretty general: makeup, accessories, some fun tech, and jewelry. Where people get confused is finding what kind of makeup, accessories, fun tech, or jewelry she actually wants.  Business Insider put together a list of specific items the modern lady in your life might want to find wrapped up, under a tree, or inside a stocking.  If you're really having trouble, send her this list and see what happens. You might learn something. FREE AppDownload
Deutsche Bank sees more downside risks than upside risks for the global economy right now, as you can see in the chart below. A couple of things to note here:  The key takeaway here is that the likelihood of a crisis is higher than the likelihood that things go smoothly in the coming months.  Happy holidays!  Deutsche Bank
This stock market is now the second most overbought, the second most overvalued and most most over-leveraged market in history. Overbought: My friend, Dana Lyons, recently posted the chart below which shows the S&amp;P 500 in relation to its exponential regression trend line. The only other time in history stocks were this “overbought” (traded more than 90% above the long-term trend) was back at the height of the internet bubble. JLFMI  Overvalued: A glance at the chart below, of Warren Buffett’s favorite valuation metric (total market capitalization-to-GDP), clearly shows that there was also only one other time in history when stocks were priced so dearly as they are today: 1999. FRED Over-leveraged: Finally, investors have never been so highly levered to equity prices. Even 1999 can’t compare with today’s aggressiveness. As the next chart shows, net free credits (cash minus margin debt) in brokerage accounts have never traveled so far into negative territory as they have now. dshort.com I think it’s pretty pointless to debate whether this constitutes another “bubble” or not. Label it however you want. But it’s hard to deny that this is, at the very least, the second most unattractive time to own equities in history. In other words, this is probably the second worst time in history to own stocks.  FREE AppDownload
WikimediaMoscow City in 2014. Moscow's answer to Wall Street and London is relatively empty — and its presence reflects the larger problems in Russia's economy, according to a report by The New York Times. Not to be confused with the capital in which it is located, Moscow City is the skyscraper-filled financial center of Moscow.  Originally called the Moscow International Business Center, Moscow City was envisioned as an international center for business, entertainment, and living. The center was built incredibly quickly during the 2000's: eight skyscrapers are complete, eight more are under construction, and two more are planned. The entire project is expected to be complete by 2018. However, the center has two problems: it's emptying out, and it's not quite a financial center. "Vacancy rates in the newly built financial district have become acute," The Times reports. "The entire site, some 148 acres that now includes the tallest building in Europe, Mercury City Tower, had a vacancy rate of 32 percent at the end of October, according to Cushman &amp; Wakefield, the real estate consultancy." There's some discrepancy over the exact vacancy rate, however. The development management company for the financial sector, City, estimates that the vacancy rate is more like 20%. In any case, financial services companies aren't the primary occupants of Moscow City anymore, according to City. The Times notes that 58% of the companies who signed leases were "nonfinancial companies as well as local small and midsize businesses, like High Level Hostel." WikimediaA look at the Moscow City skyline from September 2006 to July 2014. Although the center is facing troubles, several years ago the project made sense. Russia was growing at 7% per year from 2000 to 2007; the Russian Trading System opened in 1995 (now called the Moscow Exchange), and the country was waving good-bye to its Soviet past. Everyone was expecting the Russian economy is flourish into a major international power worthy of an international finance hub. But today, things are looking a little different: Russia's political agenda has taken center stage. Following the sanctions imposed by the EU and the US, the Russian economy has taken a serious hit. The ruble is in free fall, inflation is way above target, and falling oil prices have put immense pressure on the economy. Two of Russia's largest state financial institutions being sanctions, Sberbank and VTB, both own real estate in Moscow City. Google Finance  FREE AppDownload
Wonderlane/FlickrThe pace of new home sales climbed 0.7% in October to an annualized pace of 458,000 units. Economists had forecast a pace of 471,000 units. "Although there has been significant volatility in this series, it appears to have fluctuated around the 400k-450k range for most of the past two years, indicating a stabilization in new home sales at these levels," Barclays' Blerina Uruçi said. "We expect a gradual increase in sales next year to be supported by improving demand as employment and earnings growth picks up." Sales climbed 7.1% in the Northeast and surged 15.8% in the Midwest. They declined in the South and the West. The median new home sales price during the month was $305,000. According to the Census, there were 212,000 new houses for sale, which represents a 5.6 month supply. FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty Pending home sales fell in October. Pending home sales tumbled 1.1% month-on-month in October, missing expectations for a modest rise. On a year-over-year basis, pending home sales rose 2.2%, but this number also missed expectations. Expectations were for the report to show pending home sales rose 0.5% month-on-month in October and 2.5% over the prior year. This would be a slight improvement over the 0.3% increase seen last month. Following the report, Lawrence Yun, chief economist at the National Association of Realtors said that despite October's decline, contract signing have "remained at a healthy pace now for six straight months." "In addition to low interest rates, buyers entering the market this autumn are being lured by the increase in homes for sale and less competition from investors paying in cash," Yun said. "Demand is holding steady but would be more robust if it weren't for lagging wage growth and tight credit conditions that continue to hamper those individuals looking for relief from rising rents."   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike StoneConsumer confidence remains at a seven-year high. The final reading on November consumer confidence from the University of Michigan came in at 88.8, down slightly from the preliminary reading but still solid. Expectations were for the reading to come in at 90.0, up from the preliminary 89.4 reading earlier this month. That read was a seven-year high for the index, and Thursday's number is also the highest since July 2007 on a final basis. The report also showed that consumers' read on current conditions is at 102.7, down from the preliminary 103.0 reading but up from October's final reading of 98.3.  Consumer expectations are at 79.9, down from the preliminary 80.6, but up slightly from the 79.6 final reading in October. Inflation expectations for the next year ticked up in the final reading, to 2.8% from 2.6%, but for the next five years expectations remained at 2.6%.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Steve Wright Jr.Chicago PMI data came in at 60.8, just below expectations. Expectations were for the report to show manufacturing in the midwest remains strong, but slowing slightly from October, with the index expected to come in at 63.0, down from 66.2 last month. ISM said in its report that the index fell from October's one-year high driven by a double digit decline in new orders. Commenting on the report, Philip Uglow, chief economist at MNI Indicators said, "Following the sharp rise in [Chicago PMI] to a one year high in October it wasn't too surprising to see activity ease somewhat in November. Overall the trend remains firm and activity looks set to pick up in Q4 from Q3." Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "In one line: No big deal; still strong." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA new Fiat Chrysler Automobiles sign is unveiled at Chrysler Group World Headquarters in Auburn Hills, MichiganDETROIT (Reuters) - Chrysler Group LLC must expand its recall of vehicles with Takata Corp  air bags and begin notifying customers of the action by Monday, the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said. The Fiat Chrysler Automobiles  unit is at the "rear of the pack" among automakers in telling its customers of the possible dangers of Takata's air bags, the NHTSA said in a letter sent on Tuesday to company Chief Executive Officer Sergio Marchionne. Chrysler was among 10 automakers that in June began recalling vehicles registered in some high-humidity states and U.S. territories and whose possibly defective Takata air bags can explode and have been linked to at least five deaths. In June, Chrysler recalled 371,000 Chrysler and Dodge vehicles from model years 2005 to 2008 with the air bags. "Throughout the process of initiating the recall, providing information to both Takata and NHTSA, making arrangements to provide replacement air bag inflators and collect inflators from the field for testing, Chrysler has consistently maintained its position at the rear of the pack," NHTSA Deputy Administrator David Friedman wrote in his letter. Chrysler is still reviewing Friedman's letter, a company spokesman said on Wednesday. Friedman said "Chrysler is obligated" to expand its recall to coastal areas of Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama as well as southern Georgia and in Guam, Saipan and American Samoa. Takata had sent NHTSA a report on Nov. 10 that said its air bags in those areas were defective, he said. So far, Chrysler's recall has only covered Florida, Puerto Rico, Hawaii and the U.S. Virgin Islands. NHTSA set the notification deadline for Chrysler at Monday, when Takata has said it will begin shipping replacement parts to the automaker. Chrysler has said it will wait until Dec. 19 to tell customers because of a lack of replacement parts. "Chrysler's decision to delay notification until it has replacement parts deprives its customers of the ability to take their own informed, precautionary measures if they have a car with a potentially defective air bag," such as leaving the passenger seat unoccupied, Friedman said. Shares of Fiat Chrysler were down 1.3 percent at $12.49 on the New York Stock Exchange. They fell 0.6 percent in Milan. The Detroit News reported the letter to Marchionne on Tuesday night.  (Reporting by Bernie Woodall; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesOn Thursday morning, John Deere reported fourth-quarter earnings and revenue that beat expectations. In the quarter, the agricultural and construction equipment manufacturer reported earnings per share of $1.83 on revenue of $8.9 billion, topping estimates for $1.57 of earnings on $7.75 billion of sales.  But when compared with the prior year, the company's earnings and revenue both declined, and Deere doesn't expected that trend to abate in 2015. Deere expects sales decline in its equipment segment, as well as its agriculture and turf segments in 2015, though the company is looking for a modest increase in sales in its construction and forestry segment. The company, which has its finger on the pulse of nearly the entire agricultural and industrial economy, released a slide deck to accompany its fourth-quarter earnings conference call, and its outlook for the global economy isn't great.  Deere expects commodity prices to continue falling next year, a trend that has been in place for most of 2014, and the company sees China and Europe continuing to grow at just a modest pace.  And the company's most negative view is on Brazil, where Deere expects the crop value of agricultural production to decline 15% next year. FREE AppDownload
The European economy is suffering from a lack of growth and tumbling prices. It certainly doesn't help that the euro zone currency union is made up of individual countries with their own unique problems and their own unique ideas for fixing the regions woes. It's a complicated story. To help, Deutsche Bank offers this great annotated map that highlights the key issues in six notable euro zone economies. Deutsche Bank
REUTERS/Toby MelvilleA painted sign for a public house named "The Banker" is seen in the City of London.A major report out Wednesday from the New City Agenda and Cass Business School offers a pretty brutal exposé of how retail banks behaved ahead of the financial crisis in 2008.  It includes the bizarre cabbage-based torment of employees who weren't making sales. But it also breaks down how British banking ended up in its current state, with very little competition and a handful of enormous financial institutions dominating high-street banking. Three charts explain the phenomenon. First of all, here's how 16 major banks and two building societies just became the five massive institutions that dominate the UK. It's reminiscent of a similar and famous chart made by Mother Jones showing just how many US banks used to exist and how they have been merged and consolidated into a series of behemoths. New City Agenda, Cass Business School, Bankers Magazine, Collins, RBS Archives But that's not actually the full story, because it underestimates the amount of variety in financial institutions that existed 50 years ago and has since disappeared. The building society, a mutual sort of deposit and lending organisation, used to be once of the major parts of British household finance. Building societies still have significant assets, but their numbers have plummeted.  In 1960, there were 720 building societies, down from 2,286 in 1900. Today, there are fewer than 10: Building Society Association, Bank of England, Cass Business School, New City Agenda So the UK was left without building societies. But what about banks? In the US, thousands of small banks exist alongside the giants. Why not in the UK? Well, they did. But they started dying off even longer ago. At the end of the Napoleonic wars, there were more than 700 private banks, for a population of just over 10 million. These institutions were run by partners who were personally liable for their performance. Over time, they were replaced by a dwindling number of joint-stock banks (in which managers were not liable for their performance).  Collins, Presnell, Bank of England, New City Agenda, Cass Business School These banks merged with and acquired one another until there were very few, but the ones that did exist were large and had a lot of branches. This change, combined with the decline of building societies over the 100 years after, goes a long way to explaining why British banking looks so much like a cartel today. FREE AppDownload
AP Images Initial jobless claims rose to 313,000 last week. Expectations were for the report to show claims fall down to 288,000, from the previous week's 291,000. The four-week moving average of claims rose to 294,000, up from 287,500 last week. The insured unemployment number dropped to 2.316 million, down from last week's 2.33 million. "This is the lowest level for insured unemployment since December 9, 2000 when it was 2,236,000," the Department of Labor noted. "The 4-week moving average was 2,352,000 a decrease of 17,740 from the previous week's revised average. This was the lowest level for this average since January 6, 2001 when it was 2,349,250."  "Though we have seen increased over the past three weeks in the 4-week average, the trend in claims remains relatively low," according to BNP Paribas' Derek Lindsey. FREE AppDownload
October durable goods orders offered a mixed read on manufacturing industry. Durable goods orders unexpectedly increased by 0.4% in October following two consecutive months of decline. This was much better than the 0.6% decline expected by economists. This headline number has been volatile following an unusually high number of aircraft orders in July. Excluding transportation equipment, orders actually fell by 0.9%. Nondefense capital goods orders excluding aircraft (core capex orders) — an indicator of business spending — unexpectedly fell 1.3%. Economists had forecast a 1.0% increase. "The decline in October core capital goods orders supports our forecast for a moderation in equipment investment in Q4, to 5.0% q/q from Q3's 10.7% pace," BNP Paribas' Laura Rosner said. "We believe that the slowing in durable goods orders reflects companies' increased uncertainty about the impact of slower global growth and stronger dollar on their demand outlook, leaving many to approach capital expenditure plans with increased caution," TD Securities' Gennadiy Goldberg said. Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson, however, cautions against reading too much into one month's worth of data. "[T]he data are erratic and remain — just — in the upward channel in place since late last year," Shepherdson said. "Business surveys appear to point to much stronger numbers, but we remain of the view that the ISM survey is currently so compromised by nonsensical seasonals that it cannot be taken seriously." FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsInflation rose in-line with expectations in October while personal income and spending missed expectations. The latest personal income and spending report from the BEA showed that spending and income rose less than expected, while inflation remained tepid, with PCE rising 0.1% month-on-month in October and "core" PCE rising 0.2%. Expectations were for personal income to rise 0.4% with personal spending expected to rise 0.3%. Both of those measures rose 0.2% in October. PCE was expected to be flat month-on-month in October and rise 1.4% year-over-year, while "core" PCE, which excludes the more volatile costs of food and energy, was expected to rise 0.2% month-on-month and 1.5% year-over-year. The BEA's report on Wednesday showed that private wages and salaries rose 0.2% to $18.8 billion in October, more than the $13.9 billion increase in September, but less than the 0.4% increase that was expected.  Meanwhile, personal outlays — PCE, personal interest payments, and personal current transfer payments — increased $26.3 billion in October, compared with an increase of $8.7 billion in September. PCE, rather than CPI, is the Federal Reserve's preferred measure of inflation.  Last month, personal spending fell 0.2% and personal income rose 0.2%, while core PCE rose 0.1% month-on-month. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsJonesTradings' Dave Lutz has a roundup of what traders are chatting about right now. Good Morning!  The weather on the East Coast may make a mess of the busiest travel day in 2014, but things are looking sunny early at the NYSE - US futures are resting at record levels, adding 20bp.   Thanks to the Holiday tomorrow, we do have many catalysts pulled forward into today - initial jobless claims, durable goods orders and new home sales will keep activity flowing early – but expect volumes to drop quickly.   EU Markets are stronger, with Germany adding 60bp on the back of more ECB Sov QE chatter – but volumes are abysmal, most major EU markets trading 50% light to normal.   Another strong showing in Asia as Shanghai pops 1.5% on rate-cut momentum, hitting a 3Y high, dragging the Hang Seng along with it.   Overnight Ore hits 5Y lows, but that didn’t stop Aussie miners from jumping, propelling the ASX up 1%.  Volumes in Asia were tracking 20-40% light…  The US 10YY is under some pressure, yielding 2.25% as strong overseas demand drives German 10YY to 74bp, just above the “Flash Crash” low back on Oct15th (US Yields hit 1.86% that morning).   The DXY is off slightly as it loses ground to Yen, causing a slight tailwind for commodities.   That said, Gold failed AGAIN to retake $1200/oz, and Oil near 4Y lows into OPEC tomorrow as Saudi and Iran say “No Cut” (but chatter increases of strict quota compliance).   Copper is under pressure and near 3week lows, but we are seeing money flowing into Grains and Beans, with Corn and Wheat adding 50bp+ each.    Scheduled catalysts today include Durable Goods Orders, Personal Income/Spending, and Weekly Jobless claims at 8:30; at 9:45 we get Chicago Purchasing Manager (9:42 for Paying Subscribers); Univ. of Michigan Confidence at 10; Pending Home Sales / New Home Sales at 10:30; Natty gas Inventories at 12; and a $29B, 7Y auction at 1. FREE AppDownload
Flying cars, clones, moving sidewalks — these are yesterday's predictions for the future. So we asked kids between the ages of 9 and 13 what they thought would be the popular technologies in 2050. Produced by Sam Rega and Caroline Moss. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Note from dshort: I've updated this commentary to include Monday's release of the Second Estimate for Q3 GDP. Market Cap to GDP is a long-term valuation indicator that has become popular in recent years, thanks to Warren Buffett. Back in 2001 he remarked in a Fortune Magazine interview that "it is probably the best single measure of where valuations stand at any given moment." The four valuation indicators I track in my monthly valuation overview offer a long-term perspective of well over a century. The raw data for the "Buffett indicator" only goes back as far as the middle of the 20th century. Quarterly GDP dates from 1947, and the Fed's B.102 Balance sheet has quarterly updates beginning in Q4 1951. With an acknowledgement of this abbreviated timeframe, let's take a look at the plain vanilla quarterly ratio with no effort to interpolate monthly data. The strange numerator in the chart title, MVEONWMVBSNNCB, is the FRED designation for Line 39 in the B.102 balance sheet (Market Value of Equities Outstanding), available on the Federal Reserve website. Here is a link to a FRED version of the chart. Incidentally, the numerator is the same series used for a simple calculation of the Q Ratio valuation indicator. I've updated the GDP denominator with the Q3 Second Estimate. The numerator is from the Fed's Q2 Z.1 Financial Accounts released on September 18th with a linear extrapolation for a Q3 estimate.  Click for a larger image Here is a more transparent alternate snapshot over a shorter timeframe using the Wilshire 5000 Full Cap Price Index divided by GDP. I've used the FRED data for the stock index numerator (WILL5000PRFC).  Click for a larger image A quick technical note: To match the quarterly intervals of GDP, for the Wilshire data I've used the quarterly average of daily closes rather than quarterly closes (slightly smoothing the volatility). How Well do the Two Views Match? The first of the two charts above appears to show a significantly greater overvaluation. Here are the two versions side-by-side. The one on the left shows the latest valuation over two standard deviations (SD) above the mean. The other one is noticeably lower. Why does one look so much more expensive than the other?     One uses Fed data back to the middle of the last century for the numerator, the other uses the Wilshire 5000, the data for which only goes back to 1971. The Wilshire is the more familiar numerator, but the Fed data gives us a longer timeframe. And those early decades, when the ratio was substantially lower, have definitely impacted the mean and SDs. To illustrate my point, here is an overlay of the two versions over the same timeframe. The one with the Fed numerator has a tad more upside volatility, but they're singing pretty much in harmony.  Click for a larger image Incidentally, the Fed's estimate for Nonfinancial Corporate Business; Corporate Equities; Liability is the broader of the two numerators. The Wilshire 5000 currently consists of fewer than 4000 companies. What Do These Charts Tell Us? In a CNBC interview earlier this spring CNBC interview (April 23rd), Warren Buffett expressed his view that stocks aren't "too frothy". However, both the "Buffett Index" and the Wilshire 5000 variant suggest that today's market is indeed at lofty valuations, now well above the housing-bubble peak in 2007. In fact, we can see in the first chart above only four quarters (during the dot.com bubble) with higher valuations. The latest estimate is about half-way between two and three standard deviations above the mean valuation. Wouldn't GNP Give a More Accurate Picture? Note from dshort: GNP estimates lag GDP by a month, so this section is based on a preliminary estimate for GNP. That is a question I've been asked multiple times. Here is the same calculation with Gross National Product as the denominator; the two versions differ very little from their Gross Domestic Product counterparts.     Here is an overlay of the two GNP versions -- again, very similar.  Click for a larger image Another question I've been repeatedly asked is why I don't include the "Buffett Indicator" in the overlay of the four valuation indicators I update monthly. I've not included it for various reasons: The timeframe is so much shorter, the overlapping timeframe tells the same story, and the four-version overlay is about as visually "busy" as I'm comfortable graphing. One final comment: While I see this indicator as a general gauge of market valuation, it it's not useful for short-term market timing, as this overlay with the S&amp;P 500 makes clear.  Click for a larger image   This article originally appeared at Advisor Perspectives.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCommercial and residential buildings stand in BeijingBEIJING (Reuters) - China will develop international outsourcing of high-value-added services to create new advantages in foreign trade, its cabinet said on Wednesday, according to the official government website. The State Council will reduce corporate income taxes to 15 percent in a number of cities to encourage development of the high-tech, high value-added services outsourcing industry. The goal is to move Chinese industry away from relying on low cost manufacturing to be globally competitive. The effort will focus on developing software and IT services, research and development, finance, and government services, the State Council said. China will trial a tax-free or zero value-added tax policy for international outsourcing services and provide various kinds of financial support and public financing. It will also cut red tape for dealing with foreign exchange. Government departments also will pay for more services.  (Reporting by Paul Carsten; editing by Jane Baird) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange as the market closes in New York October 17, 2014. Note from dshort: The NYSE has released new data for margin debt, now available through October. I've updated the charts in this commentary to include the latest numbers. The New York Stock Exchange publishes end-of-month data for margin debt on the NYXdata website, where we can also find historical data back to 1959. Let's examine the numbers and study the relationship between margin debt and the market, using the S&amp;P 500 as the surrogate for the latter. The first chart shows the two series in real terms — adjusted for inflation to today's dollar using the Consumer Price Index as the deflator. I picked 1995 as an arbitrary start date. We were well into the Boomer Bull Market that began in 1982 and approaching the start of the Tech Bubble that shaped investor sentiment during the second half of the decade. The astonishing surge in leverage in late 1999 peaked in March 2000, the same month that the S&amp;P 500 hit its all-time daily high, although the highest monthly close for that year was five months later in August. A similar surge began in 2006, peaking in July 2007, three months before the market peak. Debt hit a trough in February 2009, a month before the March market bottom. It then began another major cycle of increase. Margin debt hit an all-time high in February of this year. The latest Margin Data Unfortunately, the NYSE margin debt data is about a month old when it is published. Following its February peak, real margin declined sharply for two months, -3.9% in March -3.2% in April and was flat in May. It then jumped 5.7% in June, its largest gain in 17 months. July saw a 0.9% decline, but number has drifted higher the two subsequent months, up 0.6% in August and 0.2% in September. However the October level is now 2.2% off the February peak.  Click for a larger image The next chart shows the percentage growth of the two data series from the same 1995 starting date, again based on real (inflation-adjusted) data. I've added markers to show the precise monthly values and added callouts to show the month. Margin debt grew at a rate comparable to the market from 1995 to late summer of 2000 before soaring into the stratosphere. The two synchronized in their rate of contraction in early 2001. But with recovery after the Tech Crash, margin debt gradually returned to a growth rate closer to its former self in the second half of the 1990s rather than the more restrained real growth of the S&amp;P 500. But by September of 2006, margin again went ballistic. It finally peaked in the summer of 2007, about three months before the market.  Click for a larger image After the market low of 2009, margin debt again went on a tear until the contraction in late spring of 2010. The summer doldrums promptly ended when Chairman Bernanke hinted of more quantitative easing in his August, 2010 Jackson Hole speech. The appetite for margin instantly returned, and the Fed periodically increased the easing until the beginning of tapering purchases now underway. NYSE Investor Credit Lance Roberts of STA Wealth Management analyzes margin debt in the larger context that includes free cash accounts and credit balances in margin accounts. Essentially, he calculates the Credit Balance as the sum of Free Credit Cash Accounts and Credit Balances in Margin Accounts minus Margin Debt. The chart below illustrates the mathematics of Credit Balance with an overlay of the S&amp;P 500. Note that the chart below is based on nominal data, not adjusted for inflation.  Click for a larger image Here's a slightly closer look at the data, starting with 1995. Also, I've inverted the S&amp;P 500 monthly closes and used markers to pinpoint the monthly close values.  Click for a larger image As I pointed out above, the NYSE margin debt data is a several weeks old when it is published. Thus, even though it may in theory be a leading indicator, a major shift in margin debt isn't immediately evident. Nevertheless, we see that the troughs in the monthly net credit balance preceded peaks in the monthly S&amp;P 500 closes by six months in 2000 and four months in 2007. The most recent S&amp;P 500 correction greater than 10% was the 19.39% selloff in 2011 from April 29th to October 3rd. Investor Credit hit a negative extreme in March 2011. There are too few peak/trough episodes in this overlay series to take the latest credit-balance data as a leading indicator of a major selloff in U.S. equities. But we'll definitely want to keep an eye on this metric in the months ahead. Note on the data: The NYSE website only posts the Free Credit Cash Accounts data back to 2003. The Free Credit Cash Accounts data back to 1980 is available on a fee basis from Haver Analytics. This article originally appeared at Advisor Perspectives.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Heinz-Peter BaderSaudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi at his hotel ahead of an OPEC meeting in Vienna on Monday.Good morning! Here are the major stories to be aware of before markets open in the US. Saudi Arabia Resists Oil Cuts. "OPEC leader Saudi Arabia signaled on Wednesday it was unlikely to push for a major change in oil output at the producer group's meeting this week, a day after Russia refused to cooperate in any production cut," Reuters' Alex Lawler and Amena Bakr reported. "Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said he expected the oil market 'to stabilize itself eventually' but did not comment on talks with Russia held on Tuesday, which produced no firm pledge from Moscow to help support flagging oil prices." Oil Prices Barely Budge. Brent crude oil prices are at $78.64 per barrel, up 0.4%. WTI crude oil prices are at $74.19, up 0.1%. Prices are right near four-year lows. Europe's Juncker Has A Plan For Growth. "European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker presented a plan on Wednesday to leverage some 300 billion euros ($375 billion) of largely private new investment in the European Union, saying it was time to kick-start growth without adding to public debt," Reuters' Jan Strupczewski reported. "Underlining the need to maintain efforts at structural reforms of aging economies and pare back debt and deficits run up during the financial crisis, the EU's new chief executive told the European Parliament in Strasbourg that his plan would be the third leg of a strategy to get Europeans back to work." The UK Is Humming. UK GDP grew 0.7% in Q3, which reflects 3.0% year-over-year growth. "The broader picture of the recovery is one of employment-led growth as spare capacity is absorbed," Bloomberg economists Jamie Murray and Niraj Shah wrote. "The Bank of England sees only limited scope for this type of growth before inflationary pressures begin to build — putting the margin of slack at about 1% of GDP. Productivity growth, the only sustainable way for living standards to improve in the long term, has been very limited in the UK for the past 5 years." HP Comes Right In Line With Expectations. HP's fourth-quarter earnings were right in line with expectations, while revenue missed by a rounding error. "I'm excited to say that HP's turnaround continues on track," CEO Meg Whitman said. HP Execs Hint That More Layoffs Are Coming. HP has laid off 41,000 people (with about 9,000 people left to go) under its 2014 downsizing plan. On Tuesday, the company hinted that more layoffs could be coming with its plans to split into two huge companies. Markets Are Up. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.2%, France's CAC 40 is flat, and Germany's DAX is up 0.7%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed down 0.1%, and Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed up 1.1%. Dow futures are up 17 points and S&amp;P futures are up 2 points. Uber Will Be Valued At $40 Billion In New Round Of Funding. Uber is close to raising a new round of funding that would value it between $35 and $40 billion, according to Bloomberg. T. Rowe Price is said to be among the new investors. Samsung Just Sold Off Stakes In Chemical And Defense Units For $1.7 Billion. Samsung Group said on Wednesday it was selling stakes in the defense firm Samsung Techwin Co. and three other units for 1.9 trillion won ($1.72 billion) to Hanwha Group units. Management also announced a $2 billion share buyback plan, its first buyback plan since 2007. Here Comes Data. A ton of US economic data is being released Wednesday. Durable goods, personal income and spending, and jobless claims come at 8:30 a.m. ET. That'll be followed by the Chicago Purchasing Managers Index at 9:45 a.m. and Univ. of Michigan Consumer Confidence at 9:55 a.m. At 10 a.m., we'll get pending home sales and new home sales. Check out Business Insider's Monday Scouting Report for the full preview. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA picture illustration shows a U.S. dollar bank note and a one Euro coinBRUSSELS (Reuters) - European campaigners against an EU-U.S. accord have held up progress towards the world's biggest free trade deal by deluging an online public consultation that EU officials had hoped would help them unblock a key issue. Of almost 150,000 submissions to the public forum on how to protect businesses from unfair government interference, over 95 percent were from supporters of a small group of organisations hostile to a deal with Washington and who submitted identical or very similar responses, two EU officials have told Reuters. Investor protection is among the most contentious issues in the proposed EU-U.S. trade pact because Europeans fear U.S. multinationals would use the investor-to-state dispute settlement (ISDS) mechanism to challenge food and environmental laws in the EU on the grounds that these were restricting free commerce. The hijacking of the online consultation has undermined an EU plan to offer credible evidence of widespread concerns about arbitration and ways to handle it. A goal of having a new EU negotiating position on it by November cannot now be met, the officials said, risking a broader delay. Negotiators hope to conclude talks late next year, but there are signs of growing scepticism on both sides of the Atlantic despite leaders' insistence free trade can revive the economy. "The public consultation has not delivered a clear-cut conclusion on investment protection. Delays to a decision are now inevitable," said one EU official. Many responses to the EU survey appeared to be automated or generated by forms filled in on campaign websites, encouraging EU citizens to reject arbitration policy in the planned deal, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP). The campaign reflects the way Europeans fear being forced to import genetically-modified crops or U.S.-style chlorine-washed chicken, while activists note how a U.S. tobacco company is using arbitration to challenge Australia's smoking laws. "TTIP is a very bad idea," said Natacha Cingotti, a campaigner at Friends of the Earth Europe. "People are very worried about food safety. ISDS is dangerous." The Commission, which handles trade policy for the EU's 28 countries, froze negotiations with Washington on the ISDS issue and launched its consultation in January to ease concerns. The trade accord would create a market of 800 million people, going well beyond the import and export of goods to tie Europe and United States together, adding $100 billion a year to output on both sides of the Atlantic. The Commission closed the consultation in July and was due to report back in early November to allow negotiations on investment with the United States to resume. TTIP advocates believe a deal should be sealed by the end of 2015. But EU officials say the Commission is divided over how to draw conclusions from such a wide range of opinions from the consultation and given the huge volume of contributions, a decision may not come before the end of the year. Wikimedia Commons/ Tiago FiorezeThe Atlantic Ocean Even after the release of the report, the Commission is expected to spend the coming months talking directly with interested parties and working out what to do. About 500 submissions came from NGOs such as trade unions, and business associations, the EU officials said. The remainder came from companies and private individuals. One protest group, Corporate Europe Observatory, said in its submission that the consultation was "a mock process leading to a pre-determined outcome: the Commission's own agenda". Critics, such as German Green lawmaker Reinhard Buetikofer, have complained that the Commission failed to ask whether respondents wanted ISDS or not, but the Commission has insisted the consultation is not meant to be a referendum on the issue. But the ISDS issue has sparked so much public concern that the European Parliament, which must ratify the agreement, says it cannot accept an EU-U.S. trade agreement that contains such provisions, even if they are common to some 3,000 trade and investment treaties around the world. Germany's economy minister has also voiced resistance to ISDS in the accord, while new European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker says he will not accept that "the jurisdiction of courts in the EU member states is limited by special regimes for investor disputes." By contrast, U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman said last month that it was hard to imagine a trade deal with the European Union without strong investor protection. (Editing by Alastair Macdonald and Janet McBride) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Vasily Fedosenko That culture is "a set of organisational norms and practises that encourages employees to aggressively focus on making short term sales," according to the authors. And, perhaps strangely, it highlights at least two incidents in which high-pressure workplace culture involved cabbages (emphasis added): In one Halifax branch, there was a weekly 'Cash or Cabbages day.' Employees who exceeded their sales were publicly rewarded cash. Those who missed their bonuses were given cabbages. This ruthless sales culture is blamed in part for the excesses running up to the 2008 financial crisis. Here's what the study says on that front: There is significant evidence of a wide spread 'sales culture' which rewarded staff for aggressively promoting financial products, irrespective of risk and customer needs. This led banks to make risky loans and engage in bad practises, resulting in toxic loan books and mounting fines. This has undermined the balance sheets of the banks as well as the public's confidence in them as trusted institutions.  But it's not quite sure how vegetables became so closely involved involved (this from the section of the report on Bank of Scotland):  Two tellers at branches of the bank in Glasgow and Paisley had the vegetables placed on their desks within full public view. In the first case, an 18-year-old male teller was said to be deeply upset by the cabbage put on his desk. In the second case, which only emerged yesterday, a 24-year-old had a cauliflower placed on her desk. She was apparently told she could only pass it on when someone opened an account. It's much more popular to suggest investment banking was to blame for the crash in 2008, but there's a decent case that the big failures lay in bread-and-butter retail banking. Those are the issues that the New City Agenda is looking into.  We would need a second report to address the next important question: Why cabbages?  FREE AppDownload
TOKYO (Reuters) - U.S. bitcoin exchange operator Payward Inc said on Wednesday it will work on retrieving some millions of dollars lost by Tokyo-based Mt. Gox, once the world's largest bitcoin exchange before it collapsed in bankruptcy this year. Kraken, Payward's bitcoin exchange, will assist Mt. Gox's Tokyo-court appointed trustee Nobuaki Kobayashi with investigating where the missing bitcoins are, along with eventually redistributing any found to creditors as part of a liquidation. The partnership between Payward and Mt. Gox was approved by the Tokyo district court on Wednesday. Kraken will not be paid for the arrangement but could win new clients as former account holders at Mt. Gox register to receive future distributions from the liquidation. "We hope to revive bitcoin's reputation and create a healthy market for it, ultimately leading to profit for us," Ayako Miyaguchi, managing director of Kraken's Japanese operations, told reporters. Once handling 80 percent of the world's bitcoin trades, Mt. Gox filed for bankruptcy in February in Tokyo after it lost 750,000 of its users' bitcoins and 100,000 of its own. Mark Karpeles, the 28 year-old French CEO of Mt. Gox, blamed hackers for the loss. The lost funds represented the equivalent of $480 million at the time of the bankruptcy filing. Mt. Gox also said $28 million were "missing" from its Japanese bank accounts. Karpeles later said he had recovered 200,000 of the lost bitcoins. The collapse of Mt. Gox was a setback for a five-year-old virtual currency that proponents see as a still-developing alternative to traditional money. Kraken, a San Francisco-based bitcoin exchange, announced in October that it was launching trading between bitcoin and the yen, saying it was the only major exchange to offer a dedicated bitcoin/yen order book.   (Writing by Edwina Gibbs) FREE AppDownload
OPEC leader Saudi Arabia signaled on Wednesday it was unlikely to push for a major change in oil output at the producer group's meeting this week, a day after Russia refused to cooperate in any production cut. Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said he expected the oil market "to stabilize itself eventually" but did not comment on talks with Russia held Tuesday, which produced no firm pledge from Moscow to help support flagging oil prices. Iranian Oil Minister Bijan Zangeneh said some OPEC members, although not Iran, were gearing up for a battle over market share and insisted that non-OPEC producers needed to participate in any OPEC-led output cut. "The most important thing for all of us is the unity and solidarity of OPEC, and in this situation I believe we need to have the contribution of non-OPEC producers for managing the market," Zangeneh told reporters. "Some OPEC members believe that this is the time where we need to defend market share ... All the experts in the market believe we have oversupply in the market and next year we will have more oversupply," he added. OPEC's meeting Thursday will be one of its most crucial in recent years, with oil prices having tumbled some 30 percent since June to below $79 per barrel because of booming US shale oil output and slower global economic growth. Among the 12 members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, Venezuela and Iraq have called for output cuts. Naimi has not commented on what the group should do. OPEC usually faces huge tensions from within, but as talks over Iran's nuclear program ended with no breakthrough on Monday, most members felt relief they would not have to deal with a deluge of Iranian oil, currently hit by Western sanctions. Non-OPEC member Russia, which produces 10.5 million barrels per day (bpd) or 11 percent of global oil, came to Tuesday's meeting amid hints it might agree to cut output as it suffers from oil's price fall and Western sanctions over Ukraine. But as that meeting with Naimi and officials from Venezuela and non-OPEC member Mexico ended, Russia's most influential oil official, state firm Rosneft's head Igor Sechin, emerged with a surprise message: Russia will not reduce output even if oil falls to $60 per barrel. Sechin added that he expected low oil prices to do more damage to producing nations with higher costs, in a clear reference to the shale boom in the US. Many at OPEC were taken by surprise by Sechin's suggestion that Russia — in desperate need of oil prices above $100 per barrel to balance its budget — was ready for a price war. "Gulf states are less bothered about a price drop compared to other OPEC members," an OPEC source close to Gulf thinking said, adding that non-OPEC members ultimately needed to cut output if they expected the group to defend prices. OPEC produces 30 million bpd, or a third of global oil. Its publications have shown in recent months that global supply will exceed demand by more than 1 million bpd in the first half of next year. While the statistics speak in favor of a cut, the buildup to the OPEC meeting =Thursday has seen one of the most heated debates in years about the next policy step for the group. While price hawks like Venezuela have urged an immediate output cut, some Saudi officials told private briefings in recent months that the kingdom was prepared to withstand low prices — possibly $70 a barrel — for a prolonged period. Those messages have sparked conspiracy theories ranging from Saudis seeking to curtail the US oil boom, which needs high prices to remain profitable, to Riyadh looking to undermine Iran and Russia because of their support of Saudi's arch-enemy, Syrian President Bashar Assad. "I think even Saudi Arabia doesn't know yet whether a cut can be achieved," said Virendra Chauhan, an analyst at the Energy Aspects think tank.   (Additional reporting by Rania el-Gamal and David Sheppard; Writing by Dmitry Zhdannikov; Editing by Dale Hudson) FREE AppDownload
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Germany's BASF SE, and two other big platinum and palladium dealers have been sued in the US in what the plaintiff's law firm called the first nationwide class action over alleged price-fixing of the metals. In a complaint filed Tuesday in the US District Court in Manhattan, units of Goldman, BASF, HSBC Holdings Plc, and South Africa's Standard Bank Group Ltd were accused of having conspired since 2007 to rig the twice-daily platinum and palladium "fixings" and the prices of futures and options based on those fixings. The plaintiff, Modern Settings LLC, a Florida-based maker of jewelry and police badges, claimed metals purchasers lost millions of dollars. The defendants illegally shared customer data, used that information to engage in "front-running" of expected price moves, and manufactured phantom "spoof" orders, according to the plaintiff. Platinum and palladium are used in catalytic converters to curb vehicle emissions, and they are also used in dentistry and jewelry. On Oct. 16, the London Metal Exchange said it would on Dec. 1 take charge of platinum and palladium price fixing and use a new electronic platform. The Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Ltd unit said the platform would replace a benchmark system established in 1989 and run by Goldman, BASF, HSBC, and Standard. The complaint said such changes had "come too late" for Modern Settings and other prospective class members. The complaint seeks unspecified damages for the defendants' alleged violations of US antitrust and commodities laws. Regulators around the world have tightened scrutiny of pricing benchmarks in recent years after uncovering evidence of rigging in currencies and the London Interbank Offered Rate. Wikimedia CommonsA catalytic converter.The more stringent regulation has spawned new price setting platforms for gold, silver, platinum, and palladium. Metals purchasers have filed similar lawsuits this year accusing banks of gold and silver price-fixing. Goldman spokesman Michael DuVally and HSBC spokeswoman Juanita Gutierrez declined to comment. Standard Bank declined to comment. A spokeswoman for BASF, the world's largest chemicals maker, said the group could not comment because it had not been notified of a complaint. BASF generated 2.36 billion euros ($2.95 billion) in precious metals trading revenue last year. The London-based trading business is part of BASF's Catalysts division, which is the world's largest maker of catalytic converters. The law firm Labaton Sucharow represents Modern Settings. The case is Modern Settings LLC v. BASF Metals Ltd et al, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 14-09391.   (Additional reporting by Ludwig Burger and Frank Siebelt in Frankfurt and David Dolan in Johannesburg. Editing by Andre Grenon and Louise Heavens) FREE AppDownload
Stefano Pozzebon/Business InsiderThe UK's confirmed Q3 growth figures are just out.  UK GDP rose by 0.7% in Q3, compared to Q2, as analysts had expected: that's a decent pace of growth, meaning a 3% expansion from the same period last year. Business investment rose 7.1%, up a little less than expected. In Q3, investment only rose 1% from the second quarter. The part of the index that just covers private businesses dropped 0.7%, the first decline in five quarters. Economists had expected total business investment to jump by about 9.5% from the same time last year. That's a bit of a setback for politicians who are eager to show they're "rebalancing" the economy away from consumption spending. But in general it's considerably better than the picture in Europe at the moment, with growth at just 0.2%. Germany, the continent's biggest economy, only expanded by 0.1% in the same period. The UK's growth pace isn't quite as rapid as the US, but in general the two countries are performing much more similarly that Britain is with its stagnant neighbours. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersEuropean Commission President Juncker arrives to address the European Parliament to present a plan on growth, jobs and investment in StrasbourgSTRASBOURG, France (Reuters) - European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker presented a plan on Wednesday to leverage some 300 billion euros ($375 billion) of largely private new investment in the European Union, saying it was time to kick-start growth without adding to public debt. Underlining the need to maintain efforts at structural reforms of aging economies and pare back debt and deficits run up during the financial crisis, the EU's new chief executive told the European Parliament in Strasbourg that his plan would be the third leg of a strategy to get Europeans back to work. "Europe needs a kick-start and today the Commission is applying the jump leads," said Juncker, a conservative former prime minister of Luxembourg who took office this month. He acknowledged criticism of the plan for lacking a major component of new public spending. EU officials say the Union is setting aside just 8 billion euros to help provide 21 billion of capital for a special fund, managed with the European Investment Bank, that they believe can trigger 315 billion euros of investment over the next three years. But, insisting that the EU was not just "moving money around", he said that adding to public debt would not help, Juncker said: "We don't have a money-printing machine. We need to attract money to make it work for us." He believed Europe was in an "investment trap", where private investors were hesitating to commit funds despite being awash with liquidity, some of it provided by the European Central Bank as it tries to stave off deflation. By providing guarantees to absorb the initial risks of key projects that could improve Europe's infrastructure, Juncker said the EU could draw in more private investment. The 315 billion euros was not a cap on the ambitions of the European Fund for Strategic Investment, he said. Governments and others will be able to contribute to its capital. He assured researchers and others whose grant funding may be affected by a shift in the EU budget toward capitalizing the EFSI that they would not lose and could benefit from more investment generating further funding. After Juncker spoke, the president of the European Investment Bank, Werner Hoyer, told lawmakers his institution was ready to work quickly to get money flowing. Hoyer acknowledged that "this is not the silver bullet" for Europe's economic woes, but it was a useful part of EU strategy.     (Additional reporting by Robin Emmott and Alastair Macdonald in Brussels; Writing by Alastair Macdonald; Editing by Philip Blenkinsop) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe company logo is displayed at the Samsung news conference at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las VegasSEOUL (Reuters) - South Korea's Samsung Electronics Co Ltd &lt;005930.KS&gt; on Wednesday announced a $2 billion share buyback plan, its first since 2007, following investor calls for higher returns against a backdrop of rapidly declining profits. The world's largest smartphone maker will buy back 1.65 million common shares and 250,000 preferred shares to stabilise its share price and boost value for shareholders, it said in a regulatory filing, its second-largest buyback ever. The buyback is the latest by a major Korean company following similar action earlier this month by Hyundai Motor Co &lt;005380.KS&gt; and affiliate Kia Motors Corp &lt;000270.KS&gt;, whose buyback plans were likewise aimed at enhancing shareholder value. Samsung's plan comes amid mounting pressure for the tech giant to return more capital to shareholders as it heads for its worst annual profit in three years, dragged down by falling market share in its smartphone business. The move is also likely to appease shareholders after a year of declining shares. Samsung shares are down 12.5 percent in 2014, having recovered from multi-year lows seen last month, compared with a 1.5 percent decline for the broader market &lt;.KS11&gt;. The company is also expected to increase dividend payouts this year to further boost investor sentiment, though Samsung has yet to specify plans. The buyback plan comes ahead of Samsung's annual personnel appointment announcement, which is expected in early December. Its poor mobile phone performance this year has led to speculation that major changes may be coming, including the potential dismissal of the company's mobile division chief J.K. Shin. Samsung said it does not comment on rumours. Earlier on Wednesday, Samsung Electronics said it will sell its stakes in Samsung Techwin Co Ltd &lt;012450.KS&gt; and Samsung General Chemicals Co Ltd for 761 billion won ($687.98 million) as part of a broader Samsung Group divestment from defence and chemical arms. Samsung Electronics held 66.95 trillion won in cash and equivalents at the end of the third quarter.   (Reporting by Se Young Lee; Editing by Tony Munroe and Christopher Cushing) FREE AppDownload
Google execs are known to be "furious" at the EU's idea that the search giant — which has a 90% market share in Europe — is a monopoly that needs to be split apart. The letter from Washington politicians is the biggest sideswipe yet against the EU proposals, with senior cross-party figures from both the House and Senate lining up to give the EU a kicking. The Financial Times has published some clips from the letter:  A joint letter from the Republican and Democrat leadership of the Senate finance committee and House ways and means committee said “proposals that seem to target US technology companies” raised questions “about the EU’s commitment to open markets”. “This and similar proposals build walls rather than bridges [and] do not appear to give full consideration to the negative effect such policies may have on the broader US-EU trade relationship,” wrote senators Ron Wyden and Orrin Hatch and congressmen Dave Camo and Sander Levin. According to the FT, the chairman of the House of Representatives' judiciary committee also warned against "encouraging antitrust enforcement efforts that appear to be motivated by politics". The letter comes less than a day after the US mission to the EU warned the European bloc not to politicise the probe.  The references to politicisation are probably referring to the EU's tax complaints about Google and other companies. The suggestion that the online giant should be split aren't officially motivated by that, and are to do with allegations that its search engine is too dominant — but US lawmakers seem pretty sceptical.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Good morning! Here is what you need to know before your first meeting of the day. 1. Europe begins discussing whether it should try and break up Google. The search engine has a 90% dominance of the market here. The EU parliament debate begins at 7pm tonight. (Don't expect any immediate action.) 2. Meanwhile, Washington is annoyed that the EU believes it has the power to interfere with Google. Republican and Democrat congressmen have sent a latter expressing their alarm at the idea that the EU may proceed with its plan, according to the FT. 3. People are furious that Facebook failed to warn police that the killers of soldier Lee Rigby were using the social network to plot his death. One of the killers, Michael Adebowale, talked with a fellow extremist in December 2012 and expressed his "intent to murder a soldier in the most graphic and emotive manner." 4. Britain's bank culture is "toxic" and will take a generation to change, according to a report. The BBC says, "Over two decades 'an aggressive sales culture took hold in retail banking,' with staff in some branches receiving cash bonuses, iPods, or tickets to Wimbledon for hitting sales targets, it said. Those that failed to hit targets 'were humiliated by having cabbages and other vegetables placed on their desks,' it added. 5. Twitter is thinking about buying Justin Bieber's startup. The selfie app has 3 million users who over-index among women under age 24. 6. The UK government will introduce a new bill to parliament calling for increased surveillance of British citizens. The government wants tech companies to be required to keep and hand over citizens' ISP records, Bloomberg reports. 7. Anti-police demonstrations spread across the U.S. in reaction to the decision to not prosecute a Ferguson, Missouri, police officer who fatally shot an unarmed man six times. About 2,200 National Guard troops have been moved in to keep peace in Ferguson. 8. China is annoyed that the West is hiding corrupt officials who fled the country taking their cash with them. Many Western countries have no extradition treaty with China, the FT says. 9. A Tesco director lobbied government not to publish dirty chicken reports. Tim Smith was the head of the Food Standards Agency and then went straight into a job as a director at Tesco, the Guardian says. 10. OPEC meets today. The cartel is under pressure to cut supplies in order to boost the plummeting price of oil, which is causing havoc for many countries' economies. And finally ... A rare and "magnificent" first folio of the work of Shakespeare has turned up at a small library in France. Librarians thought the book wasn't remarkable because the cover had fallen off, the New York Times says. FREE AppDownload
LONDON (Reuters) - British holiday company Thomas Cook &lt;TCG.L&gt; said its chief executive Harriet Green was stepping down, two years after leading a turnaround of the group, and would be replaced by chief operating officer Peter Fankhauser. The company said on Wednesday the leadership change would take place with immediate effect, explaining that Green's remit had been to overhaul the firm. "I always said that I would move on to another company with fresh challenges once my work was complete. That time is now," Green said in a statement. Shares were down 18% Wednesday. Her departure came as Thomas Cook, the world's oldest travel firm, warned that its pace of growth would slow in 2015 to reflect a tougher trading environment. Since travel industry outsider Green joined two-and-a-half-years ago, Thomas Cook has been put on a more sound financial footing, reported strong growth in profits, and overseen a 892 percent rise in its share price. That represents a major recovery from a dramatic slump in 2011, when the firm was hit by the euro zone debt crisis, high fuel costs and political turmoil in popular holiday destinations such as Greece, Egypt and Tunisia. Green has driven steady improvement in the company's finances through job cuts, store closures and a series of disposals to reduce debt. Announcing full-year results also on Wednesday, the company reported a 44 percent jump in earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) to 323 million pounds ($507.43 million) for the year ended September, broadly in line with a Thomson Reuters consensus forecast of 320 million pounds. (Reporting by Sarah Young; editing by James Davey) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
HIROSHIMA, Japan (Reuters) - A Bank of Japan board member who voted for last month's huge monetary expansion defended the move on Wednesday, saying that failing to act would have cast doubt on the bank's determination to hit its price goal and undermined its credibility. Having deployed "the maximum scale of stimulus possible," the BOJ can now wait to see how much the move will support the economy and prices, Sayuri Shirai said, signaling that no further monetary easing was necessary in the near term. "We don't ease policy each time (economic and price) growth undershoots our expectations," she told a news conference. Shirai, one of two academics who held casting votes in last month's close-call decision, said she initially thought about holding off on further boosting the stimulus. But she eventually decided to support Governor Haruhiko Kuroda's expanded stimulus plan to head off the risk of slowing inflation and demonstrate the BOJ's conviction to achieve its 2 percent inflation target. "By not acting, the BOJ might risk its credibility. Such a circumstance would not only render my outlook unfeasible but would also undermine the feasibility of the 2 percent target," she told business leaders in Hiroshima, western Japan. Shirai urged companies to help Japan beat deflation by raising wages and capital expenditure. The BOJ led by example on Tuesday saying it was granting its board a salary increase of 1.3 percent, the first pay raise in nine years. The BOJ stunned markets by expanding a massive monetary stimulus drive last month as the economy slipped into recession. The easing was decided by a 5-4 vote, with dissenters arguing that the cost of easing policy outweighed the benefits, and doubting whether printing more money would help build up inflation expectations. Shirai, a former International Monetary Fund economist, said the BOJ should allow itself more than two years to meet its 2 percent inflation target if it wants to achieve that goal "without putting excessive burdens on households and companies." Given weak demand, inflation may slip below 1 percent in coming months and the economy may suffer negative growth in the current fiscal year ending March 2015, she said. "Last month's easing pre-empted such risks," she said. Shirai was among the five board members who voted for expanding QQE last month, though she made an unsuccessful proposal to water down the BOJ's commitment to hit its price target in two years.   (Reporting by Leika Kihara; Editing by Chris Gallagher and Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
