Screenshot / YouTube The official schedule for the Jackson Hole economic conference is up, and there have been several papers posted. One very interesting paper comes from MIT professor David Autor, who discusses the potential impact of robots and computers on future employment trends. There's a lot of talk about how robots are going to take all the jobs in the future, and how the only people who thrive will be the makers and owners of robots, and that that will cause massive inequality. Autor is much more optimistic. He notes that people have tended to overestimate, historically, the effect of technology on labor. And while robots are good at performing some repetitive tasks, jobs that require judgment are not so easily replaced by robots (these include jobs at the low and high end). Part of the issue is that there's a lot that we know, but can not describe (intuition). And if you can't describe something, then it's hard to program the computer to be able to do it. Computer scientists hope to get around this problem via machine learning — having the computer or robot just learn some task over time, rather than have it hard coded — but even this is challenging. Autor offers up this paragraph to explain why robots might always have a challenge learning certain tasks. Just imagine the difficulty in trying to identify something as simple as a "chair." To give this skepticism heft, return to the challenge of training a machine to recognize a chair. Ultimately, what makes an object a chair is that it is a device purpose-built for a human being to sit upon. This “purposiveness” may be difficult for a machine learning algorithm to infer, even given an arbitrarily large training database of images. As Grabner et al. (2011) argue, it is likely that humans recognize chairs not simply by comparing candidate objects to statistically probable feature sets but also by reasoning about the attributes of the object to assess whether it is likely intended to serve as a chair. For example, both a toilet and a traffic cone look somewhat like a chair, but a bit of reasoning about their shapes vis-à-vis the human anatomy suggests that a traffic cone is unlikely to make a comfortable seat. Drawing this inference, however, requires reasoning about what an object is “for” not simply what it looks like. Contemporary object recognition programs do not, for the most part, take this reasoning-based approach to identifying objects, likely because the task of developing and generalizing the approach to a large set of objects would be extremely challenging. One is reminded of Carl Sagan’s remark that, “If you wish to make an apple pie from scratch, you must first invent the universe.” Anyway, check out the paper here &gt; FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA sign is seen on the door of a Citibank branch in New York(Reuters) - Citigroup Inc has been sending hedge fund firms letters informing them that it cannot sell investments in hedge funds  and private-equity funds to clients after a deal with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Wall Street Journal reported. The bank this month reached a $285 million fraud settlement with the regulator over a complaint concerning a 2007 sale of mortgage-linked securities debt that caused more than $700 million of investor losses. Citigroup said in the letter to hedge fund firms that it was working with the SEC to resolve the issue, the newspaper reported. (http://on.wsj.com/1p0VwSD) However, the bank is allowed to sell private investments to large institutions, the Journal said. The restrictions are due to a "bad actor" rule the SEC adopted in July last year, which bars companies or individuals with a "criminal conviction, regulatory or court order or other disqualifying event" that occurred after September 2013 from participating in private offerings. (http://1.usa.gov/1voicBU) Obtaining a waiver may require more review time following last year's rule change, the Journal said, citing a person close to the matter. Citigroup spokeswoman Danielle Romero-Apsilos said the company declined to comment.  (Reporting by Ramkumar Iyer in Bangalore; Editing by Bernard Orr) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriFed Chair Janet Yellen has been vindicated in her statement that rising inflation this past spring was mostly noise. Janet Yellen will speak on Friday at the Jackson Hole economic symposium, where she is likely to give a thorough assessment of the state of the labor market, as she sees it. The overwhelming consensus is that she will acknowledge some improvement in the labor market but will identify enough "slack" in the system so as to warrant continued easy policy from the Fed. In the meantime, it's worth giving Yellen credit for a call she made at the beginning of the summer.  Back at her news conference in June, she was asked about about some CPI reading indicating rising inflation. She responded: I think recent readings on CPI index have been a bit on the high side, but I think it's the data we're seeing is noisy. Broadly speaking inflation is evolving in line with the committee's expectations. Traders, pundits, and economists really picked up on the use of the word "noisy" as dismissive of the inflation data. Well, Yellen appears to be right that whatever trend that was building was more noise than signal. Here is a look at this year's monthly CPI readings: FRED Since Yellen made her comments, inflation readings have slid to their lowest level of the year. Other readings corroborate the CPI. Just as a quick example, here's the "Prices Received" index from Thursday morning's Philly Fed Manufacturing Index. This measure also shows a sharp fading from the pressures early this summer. FRED It is unclear how much, if it all, Yellen will talk about topics beyond the labor market at Friday's speech. It's most likely that she'll really dive back into these issues at her September news conference. And at that conference it would appear Yellen will have been vindicated in her noise comments. FREE AppDownload
Brooklyn Brewery general manager Eric Ottaway debunks one of the most common beer myths. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis &amp; Kamelia Angelova. Additional camera by Daniel Goodman. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Thomson ReutersAllergan CEO Pyott speaks during an interview in New York(Reuters) - A federal judge in California on Thursday denied a request by Allergan Inc to expedite its civil suit claiming that Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc and Pershing Square Capital Management engaged in insider trading ahead of their bid to buy Allergan. Judge David Carter said the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California "would be reluctant to create a precedent that allows corporations to demand at will the immediate attention and input of the federal courts in order to resolve intra-corporate disputes that might be better left to the dynamic free market or to the state court." Valeant and Pershing Square made an offer for Botox maker Allergan in April, which the company has rejected. Valeant and Pershing Square have since proceeded to a hostile tender offer and are seeking to call a special shareholders meeting. Allergan has fought the takeover attempt and on Aug. 1 filed a civil insider trading lawsuit against the companies, saying that the unusual partnership between them violated securities regulations. William Ackman, the activist investor who runs Pershing Square, began acquiring a stake in Allergan in February in partnership with Valeant after the two had begun discussing making a bid for the company. He disclosed the nearly 10 percent stake the day before they made the offer. Ackman and Valeant have denied that they broke insider trading laws and have said the suit itself is an attempt to delay the meeting of shareholders. Ackman and Valeant must gather the support of at least 25 percent of shareholders in order to call the meeting for investors to vote on new board members and on Allergan opening merger discussions. "We are pleased that this attempt by Allergan in the California litigation to delay the special meeting was not successful," Valeant said in statement on Wednesday. Allergan did not immediately respond to a request for comment.   (Reporting by Caroline Humer and Deena Beasley; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
APFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  At The Current Valuation Stocks Can Only Offer An Attractive Return If They Mark The Start Of A Speculative Bubble (Morningstar)  Matt Coffina, editor of Morningstar's StockInvestor newsletter, writes that stocks are pricey based on the Shiller price-to-earnings ratio, which "uses 10-year average of real GAAP earnings in the denominator." The Shiller P/E is now at 26 or "about the 68th percentile relative to the last 25 years," Coffina said. "So, in other words, the market has in general been cheaper, based on this measure, 68% of the time since the late 1980s. That's certainly a cause for concern based on recent history." "So, what we've seen historically is that any time the Shiller P/E is above, say, 25.5, which is about the 60th percentile relative to the past 25 years, subsequent total returns for investors have been very poor, on average in the low-single digits, with some very severe drawdowns, and pretty much the only time investors have achieved an attractive total return from current valuation levels is if it was at the beginning of a speculative bubble. So, say, 1996 before the late '90s bull market really got going, or 2002 and the lead-up to the housing bubble and the financial crisis. So, based on the Shiller P/E, I think there is definitely cause for concern from current valuation levels." America's Wealth Gap Widened In The Last Decade (Bloomberg News)  The rich got richer and the poor got poorer between 2000 and 2011, according to the latest data from the Census Bureau. "Median net worth increased by $61,379 for the top 20 percent of households, which more than doubled the share of their wealth relative to lower-income groups, the report found," writes Lorraine Woellert at Businessweek. "For those in the bottom 20 percent, net assets minus liabilities declined by $5,124. U.S. median household net worth fell by more than $5,000, or 6.8 percent, from 2000 to 2011." GARTMAN: This Is A Market Melt-Up (CNBC/Business Insider) Dennis Gartman, author of The Gartman Letter thinks stock prices just want to move up. In an interview with CNBC he said, we had "a very severe 3.5-4% correction," a few weeks ago. "Now you're taking all of the news that I think is relatively evil for the market, expectations of tighter monetary policies, being brought closer rather than being deferred, the market has accepted that very well and here were are up 95 points on the day, I think you're having a melt-up not a melt-down." Separately, in the Thursday edition of The Gartman Letter he wrote, "we see nothing that can or should de-rail the protracted global bull market. …It will end when it ends and it will end when trends lines are broken; it will end when a previous rally high fails to be taken out and a previous interim low is, instead, taken out to the downside." Wells Fargo Is Loading Up On Former Morgan Stanley Advisors (InvestmentNews)  Wells Fargo has been heavily recruiting from Morgan Stanley, reports Mason Braswell at InvestmentNews. Most recently, Wells recruited a duo with $348 million in assets under management (AUM) bring the total assets recruited in the last three months to about $1.4 billion from 10 advisors. By comparison, Morgan Stanley brought in $110 million from a Wells Fargo advisor. The numbers come from InvestmentNews' "Advisers on the Move database" and Braswell does point out "not all teams make their moves public when they change firms, so the numbers in the database may not be an accurate representation of the full scale of recruiting." Advisors Should Focus On A Niche If They Want To Grow Their Business (WealthManagement.com)  "Advisors who target a niche, often one based on a particular profession, stand a better chance of growing a business," writes Anne Field at WealthManagement.com. But Field has some advice on how advisors can go about it. Take dentists for instance, Field suggests that you can network by going to big annual meeting of the Association of Dentists, but it might be more effective to "attend monthly meetings of your state association’s local offshoots." She suggests discussing topics of interest like disability insurance. With baseball players Field suggests meeting them during spring training and focusing on subjects like "cash flow management and budgeting." FREE AppDownload
PETA owns SeaWorld stock. When Cher found out the news on Thursday, the international recording star was less than thrilled. But PETA's stake really isn't a big deal. After the recent tumble in shares of SeaWorld, PETA said in an emailed statement that it purchased more shares of SeaWorld, "in order to retain the minimum investment that it needs to propose shareholder resolutions and submit formal shareholders questions" to the company.  This minimum investment, per SEC rules, is just $2,000. In a phone call on Thursday, PETA spokeswoman Lindsay Rajt said the company bought 55 shares of PETA after its recent fall, bringing its holdings in the company to 135 shares. Shares of SeaWorld closed at $19.01 on Thursday, making the value of PETA's stake in the company just over $2,900.  AP ImagesAn Orca whale at SeaWorld. Rajt said PETA plans to hold onto its stake to retain the ability to submit shareholder proposals and ask questions at the company's annual meeting. According to PETA website seaworldofhurt.com, Jessica Biel submitted a question at SeaWorld's June annual meeting about whether or not the company has any plans to release some of its whale's into the wild. A webcast replay of SeaWorld's annual meeting shows SeaWorld CEO Jim Atchison responding to PETA's question about releasing its whales back into the wild. Atchison said setting their whales free into a coastal environment makes "no sense" given that the whales are born and bred in captivity. But SeaWorld's most recent quarterly results indicate that the company is clearly contending with an ever more hostile PR environment. Shortly after its quarterly report, SeaWorld announced it would build bigger tanks for its Orca whales. PETA called this a "drop-in-the-bucket move." And so while PETA maintains a small economic interest in SeaWorld, it's stake could also a drop-in-the-bucket. So Cher can probably relax.  FREE AppDownload
No matter how many times you have visited Walt Disney World for vacation, these Disney hacks for adults will make you forget about those long lines and overpriced food.  Leonard Kinsey has been visiting the park for 33 years, and has compiled some extensive tips in his book "The Dark Side of Disney," now the subject of a new Kickstarter initiative for a film. He knows Disney World like the back of his hand, and even has done some behind-the-scenes exploring. These are some of his best tips for travel.  Produced by Justin Gmoser.   Follow Bi Video: On Twitter    
FREE AppDownload
Non-GAAP earnings per share were $0.13, which beats analysts expectations by $0.01. Revenue was $1.32 billion, up 38% over the same quarter last year. That beat analysts expectations, too, of $1.29 billion. The company also raised guidance on sales for the year (its fiscal year ends January, 2015). It expects to bring in $5.34 billion to $5.37 billion. Analysts had been projecting $5.34 billion. Salesforce expects EPS of $0.50-$0.52. Analysts were projecting $0.51. Salesforce reported a net loss of $61.1 million, compared with a profit of $76.6 million a year ago. The company has been spending on acquisitions, building massive new buildings in San Francisco, Paris and elsewhere and hiring new employees. Here's the  press release: Salesforce.com Announces Fiscal 2015 Second Quarter Results - Revenue of $1.32 Billion, up 38% Year-Over-Year - Deferred Revenue of $2.35 Billion, up 31% Year-Over-Year - Unbilled Deferred Revenue of Approximately $5.0 Billion, up 32% Year-Over-Year - Operating Cash Flow of $246 Million, up 34% Year-Over-Year - Raises FY15 Revenue Guidance by $30 million to $5.34 - $5.37 Billion Revenue: Total Q2 revenue was $1.32 billion, an increase of 38% year-over-year.  Subscription and support revenues were $1.23 billion, an increase of 37% year-over-year.  Professional services and other revenues were $86 million, an increase of 58% year-over-year.  Earnings per Share:  Q2 diluted GAAP loss per share was ($0.10), and diluted non-GAAP earnings per share was $0.13. The company's non-GAAP results exclude the effects of $142 million in stock-based compensation expense, $36 million in amortization of purchased intangibles, $10 million in net non-cash interest expense related to the company's convertible senior notes, including the related loss on conversions of our convertible 0.75% senior notes, due 2015, and is based on a projected long-term non-GAAP tax rate of 36.5%.  GAAP EPS calculations are based on a basic share count of approximately 617 million shares. Non-GAAP EPS calculations are based on approximately 648 million diluted shares outstanding during the quarter, including approximately 20 million shares associated with the company's convertible 0.75% senior notes due 2015.     Cash:  Cash generated from operations for the fiscal second quarter was $246 million, an increase of 34% year-over-year.  Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities finished the quarter at $1.67 billion. Deferred Revenue:  Deferred revenue on the balance sheet as of July 31, 2014 was $2.35 billion, an increase of 31% year-over-year. Unbilled deferred revenue, representing business that is contracted but unbilled and off balance sheet, ended the second quarter at approximately $5.0 billion, up 32% year-over-year. As of August 21, 2014, salesforce.com is initiating revenue and EPS guidance for its third quarter of fiscal year 2015. In addition, the company is raising its full fiscal year 2015 revenue guidance and its EPS guidance previously provided on May 20, 2014. Q3 FY15 Guidance:  Revenue for the company's third fiscal quarter is projected to be in the range of $1.365 billion to $1.370 billion, an increase of 27% year-over-year. GAAP loss per share is expected to be in the range of ($0.13) to ($0.12), while diluted non-GAAP EPS is expected to be in the range of $0.12 to $0.13.  The non-GAAP estimate excludes the effects of stock-based compensation expense, expected to be approximately $147 million, amortization of purchased intangibles related to acquisitions, expected to be approximately $36 million, and net non-cash interest expense related to the convertible senior notes, including loss on conversions, expected to be approximately $10 million.  EPS estimates assume a GAAP tax rate of approximately negative 30%, which reflects the estimated quarterly change in the tax valuation allowance, and a projected long-term non-GAAP tax rate of 36.5%.  Note that the tax valuation allowance adds complexity, causing potential volatility in our forecasted GAAP tax rate.  The GAAP EPS calculation assumes an average basic share count of approximately 630 million shares, and the non-GAAP EPS calculation assumes an average fully diluted share count of approximately 664 million shares. Full Year FY15 Guidance:  Revenue for the company's full fiscal year 2015 is projected to be in the range of $5.340 billion to $5.370 billion, an increase of 31% to 32% year-over-year. GAAP loss per share is expected to be in the range of ($0.48) to ($0.46) while diluted non-GAAP EPS is expected to be in the range of $0.50 to $0.52.  The non-GAAP estimate excludes the effects of stock-based compensation expense, expected to be approximately $580 million, amortization of purchased intangibles related to acquisitions, expected to be approximately $151 million, and net non-cash interest expense related to the convertible senior notes, including loss on conversions, expected to be approximately $47 million.  EPS estimates assume a GAAP tax rate of approximately negative 19%, which reflects the estimated annual change in the tax valuation allowance, and a projected long-term non-GAAP tax rate of 36.5%. Note that the tax valuation allowance adds complexity, causing potential volatility in our forecasted GAAP tax rate.  The GAAP EPS calculation assumes an average basic share count of approximately 624 million shares, and the non-GAAP EPS calculation assumes an average fully diluted share count of approximately 657 million shares. The following is a per share reconciliation of GAAP EPS to diluted non-GAAP EPS guidance for the third quarter and full fiscal year: Fiscal 2015 Q3 FY2015 GAAP EPS Range*  ($0.13) - ($0.12)   ($0.48) - ($0.46)  Plus Amortization of purchased intangibles $                       0.05 $                       0.23 Stock-based expense $                       0.22 $                       0.88 Amortization of debt discount, net $                       0.02 $                       0.07 Less Income tax effects and adjustments** $                     (0.04) $                     (0.20) Non-GAAP diluted EPS  $0.12 - $0.13   $0.50 - $0.52  Shares used in computing basic net income per share (millions) 630 624 Shares used in computing diluted net income per share (millions) 664 657 * For Q3 &amp; FY15 GAAP EPS loss, basic number of shares used for calculation. ** Beginning in FY15, the company's non-GAAP tax provision uses a long-term projected tax rate of 36.5%.  FREE AppDownload
When Judge Thomas Griesa called Argentina and its lawyers into a special hearing Aug. 21, the word was that he would likely find the country in contempt of court. But he didn't, and it's not hard to understand why. If Griesa ruled that Argentina was in contempt and fined the country, Argentina would likely just ignore the whole thing or say the ruling was unfair. And then what? Then Griesa has shown that his is court toothless. He can't make Argentina pay the group of hedge funds to which it has owed over $1.3 billion in sovereign bonds for the last decade plus; he can't get the country back to the negotiating table as things stand; and he can't stop Argentina from passing a domestic law to change the jurisdiction of the bonds in question from New York City to Buenos Aires, where he's really got no power whatsoever. That last point is the reason why Argentina was called in for a special hearing in the first place. On Tuesday night, Argentina's president, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, announced that the country would effectively nullify Griesa's ruling that Argentina pay a group of hedge fund creditors who have been suing the country for about a decade. It would do this by simply passing a law domestically that "changes" the jurisdiction of those bonds from New York City to Buenos Aires and changes the custodial bank from Bank of New York Mellon to Argentina's Banco Nacion Trust. The creditors purchased Argentine debt during its last default for pennies on the dollar, then refused to take a haircut on that debt like over 90% of investors. For that, Argentina labeled the holdouts "vultures" and refused to pay them. So the holdouts sued Argentina based on a clause in their contract — the pari passu clause — which states that all creditors must pe paid together. The holdouts won, but Argentina didn't care, and on July 30 didn't pay anyone — not the holdouts, not the creditors who did restructure (the exchange bondholders), nobody. As result, the country was declared in default — but who wants that, right? Passing the law to nullify Griesa's ruling is an attempt to avoid default and pay the exchange bondholders from Argentina. In his hearing, Griesa said that the nullification law is illegal and ordered Argentina not to pay anyone in Buenos Aires. But like — who cares? Now that the government has thrown Griesa's initial ruling out, everything is up in the air. “I would fully expect him to find Argentina in contempt,” Anna Gelpern, a professor at Georgetown University Law Center in Washington and an expert on government debt, told Bloomberg. But why would he even bother? If he rules the country is in contempt and then they laugh it off, that just makes him look weak. And things are bad enough already. FREE AppDownload
Stephen Lam/ReutersShoppers and volunteer chaperones line up outside the Old Navy clothing shop during a "ChildSpree" back-to-school shopping event in San Jose, August 3, 2013. The event, hosted annually by the Salvation Army, provides 100 children in need of economic assistance, $100 each to shop for new clothes in preparation for the upcoming school year, according to a representative from the organization.(Reuters) - Teen apparel retailer Gap Inc reported a better-than-expected quarterly profit and sales and raised its full-year profit forecast, helped by strong sales of its low-priced Old Navy clothes. Comparable sales at Old Navy stores, which cater to a slightly older customer base, rose 4 percent in the second quarter ended Aug 2. But sales in its Gap and Banana Republic brands, which mainly cater to teens, were disappointing. Comparable store sales fell 5 percent at Gap and were flat at Banana Republic. Many large U.S. retailers have reported disappointing quarterly sales at their established stores, pointing to a cutback in spending on discretionary items. Gap rival Aeropostale Inc on Thursday reported a 13 percent fall in second-quarter comparable sales. American Apparel Inc said on Monday quarterly same-store sales declined 6 percent. Gap said on Thursday it was planning to introduce its Gap brand in India through 40 franchise-operated stores. The company raised its full-year profit forecast to $2.95-$3.00 per share for the year ending February 2015. It had previously forecast $2.90-$2.95 per share. Analysts on average expected the company to earn $2.95 per share for the year, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Net profit rose to $332 million, or 75 cents per share, in the second quarter ended Aug. 2, from $303 million, or 64 cents per share a year ago. Excluding items, the company earned 70 cents per share. Revenue rose 3 percent to $3.98 billion. Comparable sales were flat versus a 5 percent increase a year earlier. Analysts on average expected a profit of 69 cents per share on revenue of $3.96 billion. Gap's shares were up 1 percent at $43.18 in extended trading.   (Reporting by Ramkumar Iyer in Bangalore; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
The Real DealAlchemy Properties’ offering plan for the condominiums at the Woolworth Building was just approved by the New York Attorney General’s office, and The Real Deal headed over to the AG’s real estate finance bureau to take a peek at it.  The plan reveals that the $110 million penthouse atop the iconic tower — a unit that has been christened the “Pinnacle” — will span 9,400 square feet with just under 500 square feet of outdoor space.  This means Alchemy is asking about $11,700 per square foot for the aerie atop the landmark tower, by far a record for Downtown and one of the priciest listings ever to hit the city.  Overall, the average price for the 34 condo units collectively known as the Woolworth Tower Residences is $4,172 per foot, with a total sellout of $443.7 million. Prices start at $3.9 million for a 1,290-square-foot pad on the 44th floor, suggesting Alchemy feels even more bullish about sales prospects than it did in June, when Bloomberg News reported that the unit was asking $3.5 million.The Real Deal According to the floor plan for the Pinnacle, the penthouse will have three bedrooms, three bathrooms and three powder rooms, as well as a private elevator. The 50th and 51st floors, with more than 4,700 square feet between them, will contain the main living and dining spaces.The Real DealThe 2,456-square-foot 53rd floor will boast a room of more than 1,350 square feet, and the 55th through 58th levels in the cupola will offer a library or media room and an observation deck at the very top.The Real DealThe 51st floor of the Pinnacle penthouseThe Real DealThe 50th floor of the Pinnacle penthouse Alchemy opted to keep sales at the tower in-house, as TRD reported earlier this week. Representatives for the developer declined to comment for this story.  FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVA few weeks ago the markets didn't look so hot. But the S&amp;P 500 made a new all-time intraday high on Thursday. Dennis Gartman, author of The Gartman Letter, told CNBC that he thinks "stock prices want to go higher," and that we're having a "melt-up not a melt-down." From CNBC: "The correction happened a couple of weeks ago. You had a very severe 3.5-4% correction, went right down to a trend line, now you're taking all of the news that I think is relatively evil for the market, expectations of tighter monetary policies, being brought closer rather than being deferred, the market has accepted that very well and here were are up 95 points on the day, I think you're having a melt-up not a melt-down. And I think stock prices still want to go higher. The trend is up and all the smart guys I know keep trying to fade this thing. I've even tried to fade it at times and every time you do it's been wrong. It keeps wanting to go higher." And in Thursday's Gartman Letter, he sounded pretty bullish. "...We see nothing that can or should de-rail the protracted global bull market," he wrote. "…It will end when it ends and it will end when trends lines are broken; it will end when a previous rally high fails to be taken out and a previous interim low is, instead, taken out to the downside." From Gartman: "It will end when the last of the large number of very publicly bearish market watchers finally gives in, upends his/her bearish intuitions and turns, finally, bullish. It will end with the funds on the sidelines with large sums of cash on hand rather than investments made put all of those cash hoards to work, chasing performance. It will end in euphoria as all great bull markets end and at the moment there is nothing even modestly resembling euphoria in the markets. Rather there is disbelief in the integrity of the bull trend, with that disbelief fired by well- argued theory or theories that are intellectually brilliant, that make imminent good sense, that are readily embraced but which have been proven horribly wrong. When those theories are finally abandoned, the bull market shall end... and not a moment before. "We remain “pleasantly” long of the equities market, the middle path of our three possible paths that one can adopt in a bull market: Aggressively bullish; pleasantly bullish or neutral." Watch the CNBC interview here. Gartman comes on at the 1:30 mark:  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru HanaiSoftBank Corp. Chief Executive Masayoshi Son dumps a bucket of ice water onto himself as he takes part in the ALS ice bucket challenge at the company headquarters in Tokyo August 20, 2014.Stocks were higher with the Dow logging Thursday's biggest gains and the S&amp;P 500 making a new all-time high. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Thursday: 1. The weekly report on initial jobless claims from the Department of Labor showed claims fell 14,000 from last week to 298,000. This was better than the 303,00 that was expected by economists, though the four-week moving average of claims did tick up slightly to 300,750 from 296,000 a week ago. Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics said of the report: "The downward trend continues, and is consistent with strong payroll numbers.' 2. Markit's flash PMI for August came in at 58.0, better than the 55.7 reading that was forecast and marking the highest reading in four years. "Overall, with job hiring gathering momentum and input buying expanding at the sharpest pace for at  least seven years, it seems US manufacturers are increasingly confident that the recovery is firmly back  on track and are gearing up for a sustained rebound in production schedules over the months ahead," Markit's Tim Moore said. 3. The Philly Fed's latest manufacturing report came in way better than expected, with a headline reading of 28.0 against expectations for a reading of 19.7. This is the third straight month of gains for the index and marks the highest reading since March 2011. The report's six-month survey of future growth also improved 8 points over the previous month to its highest level since June 1992.  4. Existing home sales data came in better than expected, with the pace of home sales rising 2.4% to an annualized pace of 5.15 million units. "The number of houses for sale is higher than a year ago and tamer price increases are giving prospective buyers less hesitation about entering the market," said Lawrence Yun, chief economist at the National Association of Realtors. "More people are buying homes compared to earlier in the year and this trend should continue with interest rates remaining low and apartment rents on the rise." 5. Sears fell more than 7% after reporting a quarterly loss of $5.39 per share on sales that declined for the 30th straight quarter. BI's Ashley Lutz broke down some of the reasons why the big box retailer is likely doomed, which in addition to declining sales includes failure to invest in its future and an unsustainable strategy of spinning off assets, which it will eventually run out of.  6. eBay shares gained more than 4% after The Information reported that the company is considering spinning off its PayPal unit as soon as next year. Earlier this year, activist investor Carl Icahn took a stake in eBay and said the company needed to spin-off PayPal, but in April Icahn and the company reached an agreement and Icahn agreed with the company's decision not to spin-off PayPal at that time.  7. Oil prices have fallen sharply in the last few months, with Brent crude oil trading in London falling to around $102 a barrel, 6% lower than mid-June highs. West Texas Intermediate crude traded in New York finished the day around $94 a barrel and was recently trading as low as $92 a barrel, down 10% from its prior highs. Citi analysts Tom Fitzpatrick, Shyam Devani, and Don Tobon wrote in a note to clients that these falling oil prices could provide a "shot in the arm" for the U.S. economy. Don't Miss: 'Historians Are Going To Tar And Feather Europe's Central Bankers' » FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersJP Morgan Chase & Co sign outside headquarters in New YorkBOSTON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - Fraudsters are targeting JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co customers in an email "phishing" campaign that is unusual because it attempts to collect credentials for that bank and also infect PCs with a virus for stealing passwords from other institutions. The campaign, dubbed "Smash and Grab," was launched on Tuesday with a widely distributed email that urged recipients to click to view a secure message from JPMorgan, according to security researchers with corporate email provider Proofpoint Inc. JPMorgan, the No. 1 U.S. bank by assets, confirmed that spammers had launched a phishing campaign targeting its customers. "It looks like they sent it out to lots of people in hopes that some of them might be JPMorgan Chase customers, because there are a lot of them,” said bank spokeswoman Trish Wexler.“We are seeing this as a very small incident.” She said the bank believes most of the spam was stopped by fraud filters at large Internet providers, adding that the email looked realistic because the attackers apparently used a screen grab from an authentic email sent by the bank. Users who click on a malicious link are asked to enter credentials for accessing accounts with JPMorgan. Even if they did not comply, the site attempted to automatically install the Dyre banking Trojan on their PCs, according to Proofpoint. Dyre is a recently discovered piece of malware that seeks credentials from customers of Bank of America Corp, Citigroup Inc and the Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC, according to email security firm Phishme. (http://bit.ly/1lvFaVg) Proofpoint Vice President of Threat Research Mike Horn said it is unusual for spammers to infect PCs with malware in the same campaign that is seeking to persuade users to provide banking credentials because that increases the odds of detection. "Usually when they do credential phishing, that is all they do. In this case they are throwing in the kitchen sink," Horn said. Proofpoint saw about 150,000 emails from the group on Tuesday, the first day it noticed the campaign among its customers in the Fortune 500 and higher education. That makes a moderately large campaign, but the largest attempts involve sending more than 1 million pieces of spam over a few days to Proofpoint clients, he said. The firm manages over 100 million email accounts. Horn said that Proofpoint quickly identified the spam and was able to stop it infecting customers, but was not sure how effective it was in infecting others. Horn said that his firm was unsure who was behind the emails, though much of the campaign's infrastructure was in Russia and Ukraine and the group's tactics were consistent with those of Eastern European cybercrime gangs.   (Additional reporting by David Henry in New York; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
Flickr / ian mcwilliamsWatch your step, no matter how much experience you have.Even if you’ve held a brokerage account for decades or have made it a point to stay up-to-date on your daily stock market news, one thing is clear: There’s only one Warren Buffett — and you’re not him. And that’s O.K. Very few people come close to reaching the level of investing wisdom held by the Oracle of Omaha. After all, even the professionals don’t understand investing all the time, so why should you? In fact, there are lessons we could all stand to learn about managing a portfolio — regardless of whether you’re an old pro at it or a total newbie. Take these six common blunders that even experienced investors tend to make. Passionate investors are often glued to the financial news so they can glean more insight on what exactly to invest in. Maybe Company X has a game-changing product in development or Industry Y is showing strong market growth — and they want to get involved ASAP. But it’s important to take a step back before taking the plunge. “A lot of people do good research on their own and identify solid funds,” says Chad Carlson, a CFP® with Balasa Dinverno Foltz. “But what’s the goal of their portfolio and how do those funds fit in? Does this make sense?” In other words, consider asking yourself: Am I seeking growth? Do I want stability? Do I want dividends? What, eventually, do I want to tap this money for — retirement or some other savings goal? Answering these questions will help you decide whether that “great” investment makes sense to add to your total mix. Remember: Your whole portfolio should reflect your risk tolerance, goals, and timeline. So if any changes you make skew your portfolio too heavily in one direction, be prepared to reconsider whether to make the investment or be willing to rebalance accordingly. RELATED: 10 Questions You’ve Wanted to Ask About Investing Many investors say they have a low tolerance for risk, and that may be true in one part of their money life. But, in other ways, they may be inadvertently exposing themselves to more risk than they realize. Take retirement accounts. Ted Toal, a CFP® with Rockwood Wealth Management, believes that many people tend to be too conservative with their 401(k) allocations, mostly because they’ll pick from the options that are laid out for them, rather than basing their decision-making on how far away retirement is for them. “Most clients are given a list of choices, and rather than even attempt to choose, they either default to one of the target funds or the fixed income [option],” Toal explains. Even with a target date fund, which rebalances a portfolio for you based on a set retirement date, you still need to pay attention to the investment mix because some funds with a soon-ish target date may be more heavily weighted in bonds than you may prefer. Meanwhile, in another part of their portfolio, that same “conservative” 401(k) investor might, say, hold a large number of shares in a single stock simply because they believe in the company or have some other attachment to it. “So although they might be willing to accept drastic price fluctuations there, they are unwilling to tolerate the same volatility elsewhere,” says David Shotwell, a CFP® with Rutter Baer. “At the same time, they are ignoring the risks that go with investing in a concentrated position that lacks diversification.” Bottom line? Your risk should reflect the investing goal you’re trying to achieve, the timeline by which you want to achieve it and your tolerance for fluctuations. It’s O.K. to have different levels of risk for different goals like retirement or investing for a home down payment. But within that goal’s portfolio, consider balancing your need for growth with your desire to not lose sleep at night over volatility in the markets. RELATED: Are You Harboring an Inner Daredevil? Paul Morigi / Getty ImagesThere's only one Warren Buffett, and you're not him. Seasoned investors may think they’re no longer affected by the ups and downs of the market, but in reality, few of us are totally immune. “What I see is that even if [investors] are experienced, their emotions can still get involved” in the decision-making process, says Brian Frederick, a CFP® with Stillwater Financial Partners. That’s partially because of recency bias — a tendency to believe that investments will continue to perform the way they have in the recent past. “Sometimes it’s easy to get caught up and assume that what’s been happening for the last three months is going to happen indefinitely,” Frederick says, adding that this can make someone want to sell investments when the market dips. So just remember that no one can time the market — not even the professionals — and since you’re likely investing for the long haul, it’s better to stay invested than to pull out in a panic. In fact, research shows the U.S. stock market has never lost money over a 20-year period. By contrast, if you’d put money into the stock market in 2008, and then pulled out by year’s end because of the market crash, you’d have lost 37% — and missed out on the record rallies of 2013. So if you have decades before you need to tap your investments, try to stay the course and stick to the overall plan you’ve set for yourself. “When things are going down, even though it makes you feel better to sell,” Frederick says, “it’s not the right thing to do in the long run.” RELATED: 3 People, 3 Portfolios: What the Ups and Downs of the Stock Market Have Taught Me It often happens at parties: Your uncle’s cousin’s husband hit it big after investing in that next-big-thing IPO. Or a friend of a friend insists you must start hoarding gold. It’s tempting to want to jump on an opportunity, but if your friends and family really had all the answers, they’d be on the cover of Fortune magazine. So keep in mind that your “investing expert” friends “will tell you about every good investment they’ve made, [but] they will never tell you about their bad investments,” Toal says. “This creates a false emotional aspect in your brain that they know what they’re doing.” In other words, take that investing advice with a grain of salt. “I always tell clients, ‘Your plan isn’t going to succeed based on whether you do or don’t buy this investment,” Toal says. “More often than not, the hot tips do not work out. It’s just not worth the risk.” Flickr / Jenn DurfeyBeware hot stock tips. No matter what your experience level, there’s one thing both beginner and seasoned investors can agree on: Fees can leave you dumbfounded. One survey found that nine out of 10 Americans severely underestimate how much they pay in 401(k) fees, and with about 28 different ones to watch for — administrative fees, management fees, sales charges, to name a few — who can keep track? And remember that every time you buy or sell an investment, you may be paying a price that eats into your returns: One study found that investors in mutual funds actually pay more in trading costs than they do in expense ratios (a fund’s operating fees). Exchange-traded funds, in particular, make it easy for investors to trade effortlessly and frequently because they can be traded throughout the day like a stock. Unfortunately, the ability to make such reactive moves also makes it easy to rack up transaction fees in the process, warns Carlson. RELATED: The ‘Other’ S&amp;P 500 It may take a little detective work, but put in the effort to uncover what types of fees you are responsible for within your portfolio. You can do this by checking out your fund’s prospectus and reading through the fine print. And if you’re unsure about the costs you’re paying, ask your brokerage firm for a full fee schedule. You may not be an accountant, but it might be worth consulting one when you’re dealing with taxes and investments. In some instances, your investment accounts may offer some tax benefits. For instance, what you contribute to a 401(k) or IRA can lower your taxable income today, although you’ll be taxed on the withdrawals in retirement. Or if you anticipate you’ll be in a higher tax bracket when you’re older, a Roth IRA or Roth 401(k) might be better because you’ll pay taxes on contributions now, but your earnings can be withdrawn tax-free in retirement. RELATED: What Are Capital Gains? A Guide to When These Taxes Apply However, with investments you hold in brokerage accounts, you’ve got capital gains taxes to think about. So although you may have made a decent return selling that stock, was it worth the capital gains tax you had to pay? Or did it, for the most part, nullify the benefits of selling? Plus, the capital gains taxes you pay will depend, in part, on whether you’ve held the stock for less than a year or longer than a year, so note that the timing of your sale makes a difference. It’s not an easy maze to navigate, so make sure you’re up-to-date on your short- and long-term capital gains rates — which vary depending on your tax bracket — and how your current retirement mix may affect both your present and future tax returns. FREE AppDownload
Yesterday I posted my analysis of selected features in Sentier Research's new report on the general decline in median household incomes since the end of the Great Recession in June 2009. My focus was on real income change by age groups and by racial/ethnic categories (more here). Today I'll examine the real income changes by household type and educational attainment. According to Sentier Research's latest press release (available as a PDF), real (inflation-adjusted) median household annual income is down 3.1% since the economic recovery began in June 2009. It is 4.8% below its level at the December 2007 recession start. For the larger context here is a look at nominal and real (inflation adjusted) median household income since the turn of the century based on Sentier Research's monthly reports of the real, seasonally adjusted data.  Click for a larger image Additional charts and a discussion of this 21st century timeframe are available at this permanent link, which I update monthly. The Distribution by Type of Household Households are subdivided into two broad categories: Family and Nonfamily, which have a ratio of about two-to-one of all households. Family households are divided into three categories: Married, Female householder with children present, and Other family households. Nonfamily Households are broken into two easily understood categories -- "Women living alone" and "Men living alone" -- and a third and much smaller "Other nonfamily" catch-all. The table below shows the number of households per type and the real (inflation-adjusted) median annual income in June 2009 and the equivalent data for June 2014.  The column chart below gives us a visualization of the comparative growth in the number of households by category (married couples being the one exception that showed essentially no growth). I've circled "All Households" and its two broad subcategories.  Married couples constituted an even 50.0% of "All Households" in June 2009. Five years later it dropped to 47.8%. The 16.1% growth in "Other family households" is no doubt attributable in part to adult family members who moved back home in the wake of the post-recession financial stresses. A snapshot of changes in income shows varying degrees of shrinkage across the board.  With the -2.8% decline as the "All Household" benchmark, we see the deepest declines the two broad Nonfamily Households: "Women living alone" and "Men living alone". Interestingly enough, it is the "Men living alone" category that has fared the worst, with a 7.1% decline in real annual income 60 months following the recession's end. The Distribution by the Educational Attainment of the Householder The next table focuses on the educational attainment of the householder (the named owner or renter of the dwelling).  At first glance, a column chart of the percent changes in real median incomes appears to make no sense. All levels of educational attainment are significantly lower than the "All Households" -2.8% benchmark.  There are some complex contributors to this counterintuitive array of declines. But we get some clues when we look at the shift in numbers for attainment levels.  The Sentier Research report offers the following observation: I would also point out that a major contributor to the median income declines by educational attainment is the income lost while participating in the educational activities (back to school, online courses, etc.) required for achieving a higher educational attainment. Here is a chart of federal loans to students that I update quarterly from the Fed Flow of Funds report.  Student loans have skyrocketed since the June 2009 starting point of the Sentier Research report. In fact, as I point out in my quarterly analysis of the Fed's balance sheet, student loans are by far Uncle Sam's largest asset. Of course, we can't determine precisely the percentage of loans taken out by people who reduced or stopped income earning activities to improve their educational attainment. But the unprecedented trend in new loans fits well with the Sentier Research findings on educational attainment. I'll conclude this commentary by pointing out that there is additional fascinating information in the Sentier Research report itself: Anyone interested should study the full report, which is available for a small fee here on the Sentier Research website. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Jaguar MENAThe more the rich spend on services, the more money that stays in the local economy.Henry Blodget, editor of Business Insider, believes that businesses are greedier than ever and that greed is hurting economic growth. Luckily for all of us, both propositions are untrue. Businesses are just exactly as greedy as they have always been and inequality is either irrelevant to aggregate economic growth or actually helps it. Here are the facts. Yes, businesses are in business to make money and profits have been healthy the last few years. That is partly the result of tax credits businesses have carried forward from losses during the recent recession and partly due to more efficient operations. If businesses successfully manage to make more money, that is a plus for the economy. It is called wealth creation and has traditionally been considered a good thing. After all, businesses that do not make money do not stay in business. Further, while corporate profits may have risen as a percent of GDP, they have fallen when measured as a percent of the capital stock. In other words, it is taking businesses more dollars worth of investment to earn each new dollar of profit than it used to. That seems much less exploitive than looking at it the other way. Mr. Blodget seems to think that if businesses diverted some of those profits into higher wages, people (workers) would have more money to spend and that spending would boost the economy. However, that is like thinking that moving money from my left pants pocket to the right one makes me richer. Right now, the profits are going to business owners who either spend or save the money. If the profits are used to raise wages, every dollar of new spending power gained by workers is offset by a reduction in spending power for the business owners. Redistributing money cannot make a country wealthier. Mr. Blodget is correct that businesses are not forced to maximize their profits; they could choose to pay workers more or to think long-term. However, such a change does not change total household income since we are just moving money from one pocket to another.  And before anyone says something like: but poor and middle class people spend all their money while rich people save it, that doesn’t matter either. Consumer spending and investment spending both count equally in the gross domestic product. Money that is saved is lent out by the banks and becomes investment (spending) by somebody else. Money does not disappear from the economy when one person saves it.  In fact, since rich people spend more on services while poorer people buy more of the sorts of products that we import from other countries, the average dollar spent by a rich person helps the economy more than the average dollar spent by most of us. When we buy cheap imported clothes, some of the money does actually leave the economy, but when somebody spends the day at a spa getting a facial, massage, and mani-pedi, all that money stays in the local economy. Mr. Blodget shows a graph displaying wages as a falling percent of GDP. The graph shows a distorted picture for two reasons. First, the data do not include benefits (it is wages and salaries, not total compensation cost). Second, labor’s share of GDP has fallen because workers are paired with more capital (so capital’s share is growing). In fact, the 1980s and 1990s, periods of strong economic growth and rising household incomes show the same general pattern of a falling labor share. It doesn’t matter what share of the pie you get, only how big your piece is.  If the pie is growing fast enough (as it did under Presidents Reagan and Clinton), then your piece can get bigger even if it is a smaller percent of the whole. You can see this in the accompanying chart, which shows inflation-adjusted per capita disposable income has risen pretty continually over time. Clearly, people are ending up with a bigger piece of pie. FREDMost business owners are not rich, but regular shareholders with small investment portfolios. Taking money from them to give to workers is really just moving money from some middle class people to other middle class people. However, even if we did manage to redistribute money from rich people to not-rich people, it would not help the economy. Proof of this is that we already redistribute between $2.5 and $3 trillion per year (about $1 trillion in welfare programs and the rest in other programs like Social Security, Medicare, and corporate welfare). I cannot imagine how past experience with such programs suggests that more of it will start producing different results than we have seen so far. The reality is that hourly earnings and total compensation have been rising, not falling; businesses are not gouging people any more than they used to; and redistributing money only moves it around, it doesn’t make us richer in total. The only way to faster economic growth is to become more productive through innovation or increased human capital. Any other idea is just a gimmick or a sham. Jeffrey Dorfman is a professor of economics at The University of Georgia and regular contributor of opinion columns to Forbes.com and RealClearMarkets.com. FREE AppDownload
Are consumers about to get a lift from falling oil prices? In a new note, Citi technical analyst Tom Fitzpatrick, Shyam Devani and Dan Tobon show London-trade Brent crude futures have fallen to levels not seen in more than a year. As we wrote earlier Thursday, oil prices have had a brutal summer, falling as much as 12% as supplies grew and demand slowed. Citi goes on to say there's reason to believe it could fall further, noting that prices have broken through "support" levels at which investors would usually start buying back losses. Those levels are usually interchangeable with annual averages.  "Brent has been in a strong downtrend for the last 9 weeks," Citi writes. "This has led to it pushing sharply below the converged 55- and 200- week moving averages (Just above $109). There is also a danger this week that the 55-week moving average may close below the 200-week moving average for the first time since December 2010." While this would of course be bad for traders long crude, it would be great news for drivers. "A weekly close below the support range of $88.50-89.60, if seen, could suggest an even deeper move," they say. "Even if that does not take place, a move towards $89.50 in the 2nd half of this year would give us a high to low move from June of well over 20%." This, they say, would provide "a strong 'fiscal stimulus'/ 'shot in the arm' for the US economy just as it is gaining some self-sustaining traction." Here's the chart. The 55-week moving average is in blow; the 200-week in red. You can see how prices have twice hit a resistance level of about $109 in the past 12 months, and have now broken through a support level at around $102. We are now currently heading toward the next support level of $96.75 — the third lowest level since the end of the recession. Citi FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Cadillac logo is pictured at the Jacob Javits Convention Center during the New York International Auto Show in New YorkBy Paul Lienert and Bernie Woodall DETROIT (Reuters) - General Motors Co's  premium Cadillac group is considering expanding its offices from Detroit to Manhattan, GM said Thursday, as part of an effort to remake the brand's image and broaden its appeal outside North America under new boss Johan de Nysschen. "As Cadillac grows, it's possible we could look to add to our team or expand," said Cadillac spokesman David Caldwell. "But as of now, no changes." De Nysschen, in his previous role as head of Nissan Motor Co's  Infiniti brand, engineered a relocation of that unit from Yokohama to Hong Kong, in part to give the Infiniti team more autonomy from the Japanese parent and the opportunity to explore new ways to expand in global markets. GM has been on a similar quest to expand 112-year-old Cadillac, one of the world's oldest surviving brands, beyond its home base, while resurrecting Cadillac's earlier status as one of the world's top luxury marques. De Nysschen, the brand's third leader in two years, so far has not publicly disclosed how he plans to revive Cadillac. But an expansion of Cadillac's offices to Manhattan could help attract additional talent and put some distance - physically and culturally - between Cadillac's management team and GM headquarters in downtown Detroit. While such technical functions as design, engineering and product development likely would remain in southeastern Michigan, it is possible that de Nysschen could shift marketing, advertising and strategy to Manhattan. Word of a possible move by Cadillac to Manhattan was reported on Thursday by the Japanese website dailykanban.com. Ford Motor Co  briefly pursued a similar strategy for its premium Lincoln brand, which was relocated to southern California in 1999 and folded into the company's Premier Automotive Group, then under the direction of former BMW AG  executive Wolfgang Reitzle. When Mark Fields replaced Reitzle as head of PAG in 2002, Lincoln was separated from the group and returned to Ford headquarters in Dearborn.  (Reporting by Paul Lienert and Bernie Woodall in Detroit. Editing by Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ingolfur BruunPicture shows the growing ash plume from the Grimsvotn volcano, under the Vatnajokull glacier in southeast Iceland, as its eruption begins May 21, 2011 The situation under Bárðarbunga, the volcano below an ice sheet in Iceland that threatens to blow, remains unsettled.  The Icelandic Meteorological Office on Monday upgraded the threat level at Bárðarbunga to orange, the second-highest threat level for the volcano. In one dark scenario if the volcano breaks through the ice, it could blast ash high into the air, disrupting air traffic all over Europe. Bárðarbunga sits under 700m of ice, and the latest update from the Iceland Met Office on Thursday said:  "Seismic activity in Bárðarbunga and vicinity is still great. As yesterday, the main activity stems from the intrusive event under Dyngjujökull. A few earthquakes, shallower than those described above, have occurred in Bárðarbunga, where the activity started. This is the same pattern as during previous days. The highest magnitude during the last 24 hours was about 3.8, measured at 23:38 last night (20th August)." On Wednesday, Business Insider came across this awesome real-time visualization of the seismic activity currently taking place under Bárðarbunga. Here's every earthquake in the vicinity of the volcano in the 48 hours before 11:00 AM, August 21, 2014: Baering Gunnar Steinborsson The visualization, compiled by Bæring Gunnar Steinþórsson, shows the location and depth of the earthquakes on a three dimensional grid. The grid can be rotated to get views from different angles, giving a nice picture of what's going on near the volcano.  Each circle represents a seismic event, and the size of the circles is based on the magnitude of the earthquakes on the Richter scale. The circle's colors indicate how long ago the earthquakes happened: red circles are in the last four hours, orange circles go back to 12 hours ago, yellow circles happened between 12 and 24 hours ago, light blue between a day and a day and a half ago, and dark blue out to two days ago. Sliders at the bottom of the page allow users to filter by different times and earthquake strengths, and holding the mouse pointer over a circle shows when the quake happened and its magnitude. Here's earthquakes from the last hour: Baering Gunnar Steinborsson In an email exchange with Business Insider, Steinþórsson explained that he put the visualization together after the operator of apis.is, a site that assembles data on things happening in Iceland and distributes it in a very convenient format for computers and programmers to work with, added seismic measurements from the Icelandic Meteorology Office and challenged a Facebook group of coders to find a use for it. According to Steinþórsson, "So after looking at the data from apis.is, and seeing they had depth in there, I came up with the idea to map the earthquakes in 3D... I started coding around midnight and 5 hours later the site was ready." The site is quite fascinating to play with, and could get very exciting should things continue to heat up at Bárðarbunga. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tobias SchwarzGoldman Sachs' 'Hedge Fund Trend Monitor' report is out, and as usual it includes a list of the 50 stocks most shorted by hedge funds. The stocks listed are "not based on 13-F holdings", nor is this a "basket of stocks most held short", according to the report. When compared with the median S&amp;P 500 company, the median stock has a higher value of short interest. However, it has "similar" short interest as a percent of float-adjusted shares. The top five stocks are AT&amp;T, IBM, Intel, Exxon Mobil, and Caterpillar. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWorker on a lift is pictured near the engine of a Boeing 787 Dreamliner being built for United Airlines in Everett, WashingtonSEATTLE (Reuters) - U.S. airlines more than doubled their net profit margin in the first half of the year as revenue rose nearly three times faster than costs, trade group Airlines for America said on Thursday. The results suggest that the U.S. airline sector continued to improve its financial performance despite severe winter storms in the first quarter and increasing taxes as a percentage of ticket prices, the group, known as A4A, said. "The airlines have coped very well," said John Heimlich, A4A chief economist. The improvement also suggests airlines will continue to have money to buy new aircraft, improve air terminals, increase wages, pay dividends and buy back shares. The airlines invested $7 billion in the first half on those and other items, Heimlich said, noting U.S. airlines are on track to take delivery of 314 new aircraft this year. The nine U.S. airlines tracked in the organization's survey reported profit margins rose to 5 percent in the first half from 2.1 percent in the year-earlier period, A4A said. Net profit at the airlines rose to $3.8 billion, up from $1.6 billion in the prior-year period. The nine airlines are Alaska Air Group Inc &lt;alk.n&gt;, Allegiant Travel Co &lt;algt.o&gt;, American Airlines Group Inc &lt;aal.o&gt;, Delta Air Lines Inc &lt;dal.n&gt;, Hawaiian Holdings Inc &lt;ha.o&gt;, JetBlue Airways Corp &lt;jblu.o&gt;, Southwest Airlines Co &lt;luv.n&gt;, Spirit Airlines Inc &lt;save.o&gt; and United Continental Holdings Inc &lt;ual.n&gt;. The group's data showed air fares continued to rebound from a low during the financial crisis of just over $300 for a typical domestic round-trip flight. In the latest period, comparable tickets averaged just over $350. Ancillary fees for better seats, checked baggage and early boarding, however, continued to boost the average cost of a round trip to nearly $400, but the rate of increase in fares and fees slowed. A4A noted that since 2000, U.S. air fares have fallen 8 percent, while taxes included in ticket prices have risen 49 percent. The group said it expects about 14 million air passengers to fly during the Labor Day holiday period, a rise of 2 percent from last year. The busiest travel day is expected to be Friday, Aug. 29.   (Reporting by Alwyn Scott; Editing by Tom Brown) FREE AppDownload
How does wealth change a person? Social psychologist Paul Piff studies the empathy gap – a term that describes how people from different social class groups interact. As part of that research, he ran a study designed to highlight these gaps using a rigged Monopoly game. The results are fascinating: watch the clip above and see Paul Piff's whole TED Talk here. Follow BI Video: On YouTube
REUTERS/Heinz-Peter BaderPeople relax on a lawn installed on Ringstrasse street by environmental groups to celebrate World Car Free Day.The Economist Intelligence Unit conducted a livability survey to determine which cities around the world "provide the best or worst living conditions." Cities that tended to score the best on the survey were mid-size and located in wealthier countries with relatively low population densities. This environment, according to the report, "can foster a range of recreational activities without leading to high crime levels or overburdened infrastructure." Out of the top 10 cities, seven are located in Canada or Australia, which have population densities of 3.40 and 2.88 people per square kilometer respectively. Finland and New Zealand, which also have high-ranking cities, have 16 people per square km. The global average is 46.65 people per square km, and the U.S. average is 32 people per sq km, according to the report. Sixty-four cities scored above an 80% — which means they are considered to be "in the top tier of livability." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn eBay logo is projected onto white boxes in this illustration picture taken in Warsaw.eBay Inc. is considering spinning out its fast-growing payments unit PayPal as soon as next year, news website The Information reported, citing sources. eBay shares were up 5% at $56.08 on the Nasdaq. The company has told potential recruits for the position of PayPal CEO about a possible spin-off of the payments unit, the website reported. PayPal's previous chief executive, David Marcus, left the company in June to run Facebook Inc.'s messaging products. Whether eBay has decided to spin off all or part of PayPal, and what structure that could take, remains unclear, the website said. In January, eBay said that activist investor Carl Icahn had pushed for carving out the payments unit. Icahn backed off from his demand in April, saying that while he supported a PayPal split in the near future, now was not the time. eBay Chief Executive John Donahoe has consistently said that PayPal was integral to eBay’s business and a split would not make sense. Some investors, however, feel that an independent PayPal can grow by attracting online retailers wary of rival eBay. eBay could not immediately be reached for comment. The Information is a news website founded by former Wall Street Journal technology journalist Jessica Lessin in 2013. (Reporting by Supantha Mukherjee and Edwin Chan; editing by Rodney Joyce) FREE AppDownload
"Margin Call"/screenshotActors playing young Wall Streeters in the movie "Margin Call."Over the summer Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan, and Bank of America have announced that they will be giving junior bankers (think analysts and associates under 30) a pay raise of about 20% to 25%. According to The Wall Street Journal, Citigroup is considering the move, too. There are two simple reasons for this. First, the industry is facing tougher competition for talent from forces both within and outside of Wall Street, and, second, because of a little thing we like to call "banker burn." Post-financial-crisis regulation has changed the way big banks do business. Riskier, lucrative sources of revenue like proprietary trading are on the outs thanks to the Volcker Rule, for example, and compensation has been cut. Without the fat paycheck, Wall Street isn't as attractive as it used to be overall. As an industry, it is facing competition from the startup world and tech giants like Google and Facebook that can also afford to pay employees quite handsomely. Within finance, more often than not, if a super-talented employee does start out at a big bank, he or she is ready for more intense action and bigger money at a private equity firm or hedge fund after about four years. Private equity, for its part, has started poaching that talent earlier and earlier as it grows as an industry. Private equity firms now make up 32% of investment banking fees — $6.5 billion out of $20.4 billion in total banking fees, according to Dealogic. And PE firms tend to pay their young employees far more than banks do, and more of those bonuses are in cash — not stock, as they often are at big banks. That brings us to our second reason for this pay bump — banker burn. Horror stories of overwork during a young banker's career abound on Wall Street, where the idea of "paying your dues" is sacrosanct. Some of these stories end up as humorous anecdotes; others are beyond serious. A lot of this talk about improving young bankers' work-life balance started after a 21 year-old Bank of America intern named Moritz Erhardt died after suffering an epileptic seizure in London. An investigation found that it was brought on by the long hours and stress he was under at work. This is the kind of stuff that makes the most talented youngsters entering the job pool wonder if Wall Street is really worth it. It's no wonder big banks feel as if they need to sweeten the deal. FREE AppDownload
Nicholas EckhartA former Sears store in East Lake, Ohio, now sits empty. It is one of the hundreds of locations to close in recent years.Sears is in huge trouble. The department store has been bleeding cash, posting its ninth straight quarterly loss this morning. Sears CEO Eddie Lampert said that the company would close even more stores and cut costs in the coming months to combat the "unacceptable" losses.  Earlier this year, former Sears executive Steven Dennis wrote that he believed a turnaround was impossible.  "The uncomfortable and sad reality is this: Sears has zero chance of transforming itself into a viable retail entity," Dennis said.  Here are four reasons Sears is tanking and has little hope of recovery.  1. No one wants to shop at Sears. The department store "just doesn’t have the same resonance, it doesn’t have the same level of importance to people as it had 30 years ago," Matt McGinley, managing director at International Strategy &amp; Investment Group, told Bloomberg News. An investigation by Wall Street analyst Brian Sozzi found that many Sears stores were in disarray, making them unattractive to shoppers. Here's a photo Sozzi snapped of an abandoned portrait studio. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors 2. Sears has an identity crisis. In today's competitive retail landscape, it is essential to give customers a reason to shop your brand. People go to Macy's for the great selection and Wal-Mart because it's cheap. Sears has failed to cultivate a brand image. "The world does not need a place to buy a wrench and a blouse and a toaster oven," Dennis writes. Attempts at luring customers through fashion lines with the Kardashians and a loyalty program have failed. Associated Press 3. The brand isn't investing in the future. Sears is closing stores and cutting costs while failing to invest in strategies that could improve business. Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors, points out that Sears' capital expenditures, or investments in the future, are a fraction of what competitors are spending.  Morgan StanleySears and discount brand Kmart still have a considerable retail footprint, but the brand isn't investing in the future and plans to close more stores. 4. Unsustainable strategy. Sears has been funding its business by spinning off valuable properties like Land's End and Sears Auto. Eventually, "Sears will run out of assets to sell to raise cash to fund operation," Sozzi says.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lee CelanoThe pilings of structures washed away by Hurricane Rita stand amidst the desolate terrain of Holly Beach, Louisiana.Hurricanes can kill many people and wreck infrastructure in the space of a few hours or days. he economic damage from a hurricane, however, can last for decades. A National Bureau of Economic Research working paper by Berkeley public policy professor Solomon Hsiang and Columbia sustainable development PhD student Amir Jina explores the long term impact of tropical storms on countries' economic growth. The researchers combined models from atmospheric physics and economics to find this effect. Based on a comprehensive database of cyclone activity from 1950 to 2009, and a physical model of cyclone behavior, they were able to estimate the top cyclone wind speeds in each country for each year. This gave a measure of how hard countries got hit by hurricanes each year. They then put the hurricane data into an economic model designed to detect the effect of hurricane intensity on GDP growth, while controlling for other attributes of different countries and different years. They found that hurricanes had a long term negative impact on GDP. Here's a chart from the paper showing their main result. For each year after a hurricane hits a country, they plot the incremental effect of the hurricane's intensity, measured in wind speeds of meters per second, on per capita GDP. They found that, even twenty years after a storm, there was still a drag on economic growth, relative to a baseline trend with no cyclone: Hsiang and Jina, July 2014 A full fifteen years after a hurricane or typhoon strikes a country, that country's per capita GDP will be lower by 0.38% for each meter per second of top wind speed than it would have been without the cyclone. So, a storm whose top wind speed was 10 m/s, or about 22 miles per hour, would have its per capita GDP lowered by about 3.8% fifteen years later, compared to a stormless baseline. The authors also note that cyclones have a much more severe effect on countries with multiple storms. Because each hurricane or typhoon negatively affects GDP in the long term, multiple storms over a period of time can have effects that add up.  They illustrated this with a fairly simple thought experiment: they plotted different countries' per capita GDP growth from 1970 to 2009, then used their model for GDP growth, but with all cyclones removed, to estimate a counterfactual storm-free situation. They note the fairly big caveat that this is very much an informal thought experiment: taking a country that suffers from repeated cyclones and removing those storms would naturally involve many other changes to that country's geography and climate that could have major economic effects. For a country like the Philippines that gets hit by typhoons very regularly, this has had a major impact on GDP growth. The following chart from the paper shows this effect. The blue line represents GDP simulated by the authors' full model including the tropical storm effects, the black line is the actual historical per capita GDP level, and the red line shows the results of running the simulation with typhoons removed. The grey bars in the background show the average cyclone wind speed for each year: Hsiang and Jina, July 2014 The Philippines, according to the authors' models, have been deprived of quite a large amount of economic growth as a result of repeated typhoons. They write, "this effect of removing Filipino cyclones is one of the most extreme cases, equivalent to raising the average annual growth rate in the Philippines by roughly 7.3 percentage points, and would cause growth in the Philippines to match that of its near neighbor China." The authors conclude by pointing out that climate change could lead to an increase in the frequency and intensity of tropical storms, and since these have long term effects on economic growth, the warming of the planet may contribute to slower growth in the future through these storms. For more details, check out the working paper at NBER here. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe new Ford Focus C-Max Flexifuel car is displayed on media day at the Paris Mondial de l'Automobile in ParisDETROIT (Reuters) - Ford Motor Co has told its U.S. dealers to stop test-driving and selling C-Max and Focus models produced during a week this month because of potential problems with the steering gear assembly, a notice sent to dealers on Wednesday shows. A Ford spokeswoman said Thursday none of the affected vehicles were sold to customers and that less than 50 were on U.S. dealer lots. Some C-Max and Focus models built at the Michigan Assembly Plant outside of Detroit from Aug. 8 to Aug. 15 may not have enough ball bearings in the steering gear assembly, the notice to dealers obtained by Reuters said. This could lead to a loss of control, increasing the risk of a crash. The Ford spokeswoman said more details regarding the issue would be made available later today.     (Reporting by Bernie Woodall; Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe new Ford Focus C-Max Flexifuel car is displayed on media day at the Paris Mondial de l'Automobile in ParisDETROIT (Reuters) - Ford Motor Co has told its U.S. dealers to stop test-driving and selling C-Max and Focus models produced during a week this month because of potential problems with the steering gear assembly, a notice sent to dealers on Wednesday shows. A Ford spokeswoman said Thursday none of the affected vehicles were sold to customers and that less than 50 were on U.S. dealer lots. Some C-Max and Focus models built at the Michigan Assembly Plant outside of Detroit from Aug. 8 to Aug. 15 may not have enough ball bearings in the steering gear assembly, the notice to dealers obtained by Reuters said. This could lead to a loss of control, increasing the risk of a crash. The Ford spokeswoman said more details regarding the issue would be made available later today.     (Reporting by Bernie Woodall; Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
REUTERSTraders celebrate.The S&amp;P 500 just made a new all-time intraday high, topping the previous high of 1,991.39 hit on July 24. The S&amp;P 500 was trading as high as 1,992.35 on Thursday morning. Overall, however, stocks were mixed, with the Dow leading gains up 72 points as the blue chip index moved back above 17,000. The Nasdaq, however, was down 3 points. On Thursday, the weekly report on initial jobless claims beat expectations, falling to 298,000 from last week's revised reading for 312,000. U.S. manufacturing reports came in better than expected, with both the Philly Fed's manufacturing report and Markit's flash PMI beating expectations. Housing data was also strong, as existing home sales jumped 2.4% to an annualized rate of 5.15 million units in July.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA French farmer drives his combine as he harvests wheat in a field in Oisy-le-Verger, near Douai, northern FranceBy Valerie Parent PARIS (Reuters) - France's rain-hit wheat crop has delivered the first shock of the 2014/15 season: the EU's top grower and exporter is buying  Lithuanian and British milling wheat to mix with its unusually poor-grade crop to meet contracts signed before the harvest. French exports exceed those of Britain and Lithuania on the world market, but a wet summer has meant France is set to produce more wheat for animal feed and less higher grade bread-making grain this year. The imports are the latest signal that France might  struggle to retain its market share of milling wheat exports this season because a large part of its crop is failing to live up to its traditional clients' criteria. During the past 13 years for which Reuters has records, France has only once imported significant amounts of Lithuanian wheat. That was during the 2010/2011 season, which was also beset by quality problems. The total amount imported then, at 22,600 tonnes, was less than the single shipment of 27,500 tonnes of high protein-content wheat, which trade and port sources told Reuters was being unloaded at the Port of Rouen on Thursday. The French imports point to the potential for more unusual global grain trade flows this season. "Clearly there is a significant quantity of feed wheat in France which is normally not there, therefore they are struggling to fulfill some of their normal export destinations and obligations," said a trader in Britain. "Consequently grain has been bought to replace that French wheat from Scandinavia, Germany, Poland, the UK." France's key markets in North Africa, particularly the world's fourth-largest wheat importer Algeria, are expected to look beyond their traditional supplier for future purchases but in the meantime, French exporters are meeting existing contracts by mixing in higher quality foreign wheat. "I think that France will certainly have a problem with high-volume sales to some of its traditional markets this year, especially Algeria and Morocco," a German trader said. "The French are also likely to be aggressive sellers of feed wheat which could be offered in the Arabian and Asian markets as a competitor to corn," he added. As for British milling wheat, a shipment of 3,000 tonnes reached Dunkirk earlier this week. A second, for 4,400 tonnes, was in Rouen on Thursday, and others should follow, the sources said. Britain, which had a reasonably good quality harvest this season, is a more regular supplier of wheat to France, but its exports are usually aimed at the lower quality animal feed market.  FRENCH WHEAT MISSING ALGERIA STANDARDS While quality readings are still emerging in France, reports so far suggest a large portion of the crop will fail to meet the flour-making standards of its traditional markets outside the EU, mainly its top client Algeria. Britain is already eyeing increased market share in Algeria, with one trader estimating exports of 0.5 million tonnes by the end of the year. "I wouldn't rule out a record year of exports to Algeria," said Jack Watts, senior analyst at Britain's Home-Grown Cereals Authority. This could lead France to ship more wheat within the bloc than on the world market for the first time in seven years. [ID:nL6N0QJ2EI] The main quality concern has been weak Hagberg falling numbers, a measure of the flour-making quality of wheat and one that is hard to remedy even by blending low-grade grain with superior wheat. Varied results in France have often been well below the 230-240 Hagberg minimum required by top client Algeria, the 250 sought by Moroccan importers or the 200 set by the state grain buyer in Egypt, the world's top wheat importer. Algeria also has high standards for other milling criteria, such as specific gravity and protein content. "There will be all sorts of grain flows," another trader in Britain said. "People have got contractual obligations and people have to do odd things (to meet those obligations)."  (Additional reporting by Sarah McFarlane in London and Michael Hogan in Hamburg; writing by Sybille de La Hamaide; editing by Andrew Callus, Veronica Brown and Keiron Henderson) FREE AppDownload
AP Moeller Maersk has set a record for carrying the most cargo. The Mary Maersk carried 17,603 twenty-foot equivalent units (TEU) from Algeciras, Spain to Tanjung Pelepas, Malaysia. We've been tracking Maersk Line's  awesome Instagram account for some time. Here's some beautiful maritime photos that should appeal to anyone interested in shipping and trade. "Maersk Line in Istanbul, Turkey."  "A Maersk ship is assisted into San Juan Harbor."  "Moving a ship, March 2014"  A Maersk container appears to head in to the mountains."  "Last year Maersk Line moved more than 300,000 containers of toys and gadgets. (Image by Eve Helwich)"  "The Mærsk Mc-Kinney Møller in Rotterdam on it's maiden voyage."  "Eleonora Maersk. Nighttime in the Port of Aarhus, Denmark."  "Early containership Axel Mærsk as seen in 1976."  "The famous stairwell as seen from below"  "The giant four-bladed propeller for the first Triple-E being loaded onto the Maersk Salalah in Hamburg."  "Edith Maersk in a puddle. From the Port of Rotterdam."  "Edith Maersk and the Solitude of the Sea."  "The windsurfer feat. Louis Maersk (1984)."  "Frozen over in Saint Petersburg."  "Cargo hold 4 &amp; 3 on one of our new Triple-E vessels. From the DSME shipyard in Okpo, South Korea."  "The wall of Maersk."  FREE AppDownload
Remember that time you thought you might want to move to a fund in London? Maybe reconsider. Bloomberg reports that bonuses for hedge fund employees have dropped 94% since 2012, according to data collected by Emoulment.com. Across the board compensation shrank by 50%. Your average mid-level  employee or director is now taking home a $13,300 in their bonus as opposed to around $220,000 in 2012. Base salaries have fallen to just under $150,000 from just under $200,000 since 2012 as well. Of course, there's a reason for this. Simply — Hedge funds aren't performing. Hedge funds have returned 1% year to date, according to Goldman Sachs' 'Hedge Fund Trend Monitor', an analysis of 775 hedge funds. Meanwhile the s&amp;p 500 has returned 7%. "Consistent large allocations to retail and media stocks in the Consumer Discretionary sector have been headwinds to returns," said the report. Hedge funds have allocated 20% of their assets to this sector, which has only returned 1% year to date. That doesn't mean funds are necessarily changing their strategies though. "Portfolio turnover continued to fall to new record lows," said Goldman.     FREE AppDownload
John Paul DeJoria has a lot to balance with all of the companies he manages under his empire. The billionaire still finds a way to focus on his success and happiness. This is how he does it.  Produced by Justin Gmoser. Additional Camera by Graham Flanagan.  Follow BI Video: On Twitter  
REUTERS/Ben NelmsThe pace of existing home sales unexpectedly jumped 2.4% to an annualized rate of 5.15 million units. Economists were expecting the pace to slide 0.5% to 5.02 million. “The number of houses for sale is higher than a year ago and tamer price increases are giving prospective buyers less hesitation about entering the market,” said Lawrence Yun, chief economist at the National Association of Realtors. “More people are buying homes compared to earlier in the year and this trend should continue with interest rates remaining low and apartment rents on the rise.” The median existing-home price was $222,900, up 4.9% from a year ago. "Total housing inventory at the end of July rose 3.5% to 2.37 million existing homes available for sale, which represents a 5.5-month supply at the current sales pace," noted the NAR. "Unsold inventory is 5.8 percent higher than a year ago, when there were 2.24 million existing homes available for sale." "This positive momentum is likely to be sustained in the coming months as the steady gain in employment and still favorable buying conditions buoy housing activity," said TD Securities Millan Mulraine. FREE AppDownload
Sean Gallup/Getty ImagesThings are looking up for U.S. manufacturing.American manufacturing is on a tear.  Data from both Markit and the Philadelphia Federal Reserve released on Thursday both soundly beat expectations.  The latest manufacturing report fom the Philadelphia Federal Reserve came in at 28.0, far better than the 19.7 that was expected.  This is the third straight month of increases for the index, and marks the highest reading for this index since March 2011. The survey's indicators of future growth also improved 8 points over last month and is at its highest reading since June 1992.   The report said that, "current indicators for labor market conditions suggested continued modest expansion in employment." The reports employment index remained positive for the 14th consecutive month, those this index fell 3 points from the prior month.  Markit's flash PMI report also came in stronger than expected. Markit's August PMI came in at 58.0, beating expectations for a 55.7, and is the highest reading for the index in four years.  Following that report, Markit's Tim Moore said: "Overall, with job hiring gathering momentum and input buying expanding at the sharpest pace for at  least seven years, it seems US manufacturers are increasingly confident that the recovery is firmly back  on track and are gearing up for a sustained rebound in production schedules over the months ahead." Following both reports, Paul Dales, senior U.S. economist at Capital Economics, said, "The latest batch of US activity surveys is broadly consistent with annualized GDP growth of around 3.5% in the third quarter." FREE AppDownload
Sean Gallup/Getty ImagesThings are looking up for U.S. manufacturing.American manufacturing is on a tear.  Data from both Markit and the Philadelphia Federal Reserve released on Thursday both soundly beat expectations.  The latest manufacturing report fom the Philadelphia Federal Reserve came in at 28.0, far better than the 19.7 that was expected.  This is the third straight month of increases for the index, and marks the highest reading for this index since March 2011. The survey's indicators of future growth also improved 8 points over last month and is at its highest reading since June 1992.   The report said that, "current indicators for labor market conditions suggested continued modest expansion in employment." The reports employment index remained positive for the 14th consecutive month, those this index fell 3 points from the prior month.  Markit's flash PMI report also came in stronger than expected. Markit's August PMI came in at 58.0, beating expectations for a 55.7, and is the highest reading for the index in four years.  Following that report, Markit's Tim Moore said: "Overall, with job hiring gathering momentum and input buying expanding at the sharpest pace for at  least seven years, it seems US manufacturers are increasingly confident that the recovery is firmly back  on track and are gearing up for a sustained rebound in production schedules over the months ahead." Following both reports, Paul Dales, senior U.S. economist at Capital Economics, said, "The latest batch of US activity surveys is broadly consistent with annualized GDP growth of around 3.5% in the third quarter." FREE AppDownload
The "flash" reading for Markit Economics' purchasing manager's index for August came in at 58.0. The consensus forecast was for 55.7, basically unchanged from 55.8 prior.  It was the fastest pace in four years. New export business increases at steepest pace for three years. Employment growth had its best performance since March 2013.  “Overall, with job hiring gathering momentum and input buying expanding at the sharpest pace for at  least seven years, it seems US manufacturers are increasingly confident that the recovery is firmly back  on track and are gearing up for a sustained rebound in production schedules over the months ahead,” Markit's Tim Moore said.  Input cost inflation went nowhere and remained below historical averages.  Here's the chart for the headline reading: Markit Economics And here's the output chart: Markit Economics FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ralph OrlowskiEuropean Central Bank president Mario Draghi.Peter Diamond, an MIT professor who won the Nobel Prize for economics in 2010, told The Telegraph that "Historians are going to tar and feather Europe's central bankers." Diamond told The Telegraph's Ambrose Evans-Pritchard that "Young people in Spain and Italy who hit the job market in this recession are going to be affected for decades. It is a terrible outcome, and it is surprising how little uproar there has been over policies that are so stunning destructive."  Diamond spoke to The Telegraph at the Lindau Nobel Laureate Meetings held this week in Germany. On Thursday, Markit published its latest flash PMI report for the eurozone, with the reading falling to 52.8 in August from 53.8 in July. In Germany, manufacturing PMI fell to 52.0 from 52.4, while these readings in France fell to 46.5 from 47.8. A reading over 50.0 represents economic growth. Following this report, Claus Vistesen at Pantheon Macroeconomics said the latest PMI reading has, "increased risks to the downside" for future growth in the eurozone. This data also failed to reverse the trends that prompted Carl Weinberg of High Frequency Economics to say earlier this month that, "For Euroland, the big picture is that the economy is in its seventh year of depression." Evans-Pritchard's report also includes quotes from noted economists Joseph Stiglitz and Christopher Sims, both of whom are extremely bearish on the future of the eurozone, with Sims saying if he was advising Greece, Portugal, or Spain, he'd advise them to prepare contingency plans to leave the euro.  Stiglitz called the European Central Bank's monetary policy a "disastrous failure." ECB president Mario Draghi is expected to speak this weekend at the Jackson Hole economic symposium, with his comments to be closely watched as many economists expect the ECB to engage in "major" quantitative easing programs in the not-too-distant future.  But will these measures be too little too late? FREE AppDownload
Last week, I discussed what I think is clear about the increasing concentration of income in the hands of fewer people in the US. I used a graph of the income earned by the top 5% of US taxpayers as it relates to what party holds the Presidency. For those who didn’t see the graph, here it is once again. futurebrief.wordpress.com Roughly thirty years of stability, followed by thirty years of an uphill climb until the proportion of income earned by the top 5% has nearly doubled. If you do the same with the top 1% or top 10%, you get the same basic results. As I said last week, this graph tells me one thing: That the party identification or the ideological identification of the governing President made absolutely no difference at all to the proportion of income received by the top 5%. Of course, that is not what politicians will tell you, but that’s another story. Today, I want to answer the obvious question. If politics and ideology have nothing to do with this, then what is the cause of this dramatic shift? A new world The shift begins in the 1980s, a period during which I traveled and worked extensively overseas — and unless you’re at least 50, and that’s a low estimate, you will not be able to remember that period three decades ago as an adult.  Consider the period 1976 – 1991. It began with Mao’s death and the struggle for control of China. In 1981, Deng Xiaoping took control and began the modernization process that led to China’s current economy, beginning the slow, but sure, opening up of China to the outside world. Mikhail Gorbachev became the Soviet Union’s center of attention in 1985, the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, and the flag of the Soviet Union was lowered for the last time on December 25, 1991. All told, it brought the end of the Cold War and Mao’s China and the opening up of a truly global market. I worked through that period overseas, but I had doing that for more than a decade prior to its beginning. I started in 1967 as a Peace Corps Volunteer in the Philippines and, with the exception of a couple years working on the domestic US scene, the 47 years of my life since then have remained focused on global economic development, working in more than 40 nations in Asia, Latin America, and Africa, many of which are called emerging or frontier markets today. Now back in the 70s and 80s, it was raw dental work to get an American business interested in Africa. When I met with the commercial attaché of the Japanese Embassy in Ghana in 1973, he sneered at Americans for being so blind to the business potential. In 1981, I was told bluntly by the leader of a team from Ralston-Purina that they saw absolutely no market in Africa and didn’t believe they ever would (I am amused they were bought by Nestlé, a company that has marketed in Africa for decades).  But in the 90s there was a change as it suddenly became easy to fly to countless places around the world. When I visited Ghana in 1995 after more than a decade of absence, I found plenty of new hotels, all of them stuffed to the rafters with visiting business people, many of them Americans. I could hardly believe my eyes and ears. The “dark continent” was becoming the “new market." And who were the Americans traveling starting businesses in Ghana and around the world? They certainly were not poor people and few were middle class. They may not all have been part of the top 5%, but those are the people who sent them. In short, Americans with high levels of disposable income were people who had the means and experience to take advantage of the new global market opening up all around them and, as an added bonus in recent years, overseas investments might be less vulnerable to the whims and machinations of American politicians. It took them little time to figure out that what was going on globally was a huge opportunity, and they were not afraid to take advantage of it. The top 5% has been globalized. It is hardly a surprise that they have benefited from that in ways not available to Americans with modest means and modest experience outside the US. There is a new global upper class that has rapidly developed over the last three decades. They are still very much citizens of their various nations, but they really relate better to each other than they do to the rest of us back home, wherever “home” might be. They are not evil people or scoundrels. What they are doing is perfectly ordinary and simply human, but it has some unintended negative consequences for the rest of us. I will leave it at that for the moment, but I will return to it more than once in future posts. Back to the future I will close today by sharing the other graph I included last week, a very simple one I created from US income statistics and nothing new to most of you. It presents the same information as the one at the beginning of this commentary, but without the politics. futurebrief.wordpress.com With my background, I cannot look at this graph without thinking of the end of the Cold War and Mao’s China. It is one of the things that concern me the most about what passes for “global analysis” in the US these days. Too much attention to monkeys dancing on the stage and too little to the 800-pound gorilla in the back row of the theater. Americans are not ignorant of the simple fact that that their “world” has changed. Neither were Europeans in their post-colonial period of the last half of the 20th century, but like the Europeans then, too many American analysts today are still failing to come to grips with the reality of the second decade of the 21st century. They are not actually “in denial” as some might say. They are “in avoidance”. When the gorilla is too much to deal with honestly and forthrightly, you keep your eyes on the monkeys. It isn’t working for Europe. It won’t work for the US either. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man walks past a sign at an AstraZeneca site in MacclesfieldBy Ben Hirschler LONDON (Reuters) - Shares in drugmaker AstraZeneca have climbed more than 7 percent this week, fueled by speculation of renewed takeover interest from Pfizer, following an abortive $118 billion (71 billion pounds) takeover attempt in May. But while British takeover rules mean deal talks could be back on the cards as early as Aug. 26, following the ending of the first of a two-stage cooling-off period, many investors and analysts see the year-end as a more likely time for any return. "I'm not expecting anything next week," said Dan Mahony, a fund manager at Polar Capital, who increased his stake in AstraZeneca last year. "I know the stock is rallying on anticipation but I suspect if anything is going to happen it is more likely to happen in November or December." Pfizer Chief Executive Ian Read has made clear he is still considering big deals to revive his firm's pipeline and cut its tax bill - something buying AstraZeneca would allow it to do via a so-called inversion that would shift its tax base to Britain. However, Read has little leverage right now. Pfizer cannot take the initiative and launch a public bid until Nov. 26 - six months from when it walked away after AstraZeneca rejected its last offer - though AstraZeneca can invite it back from Aug. 26. British rules also allow Pfizer to make a single offer via a private phone call to AstraZeneca. But this single offer option is rarely used in takeover situations as the bidder has no way to take things further if the target simply says "no". As a result, Pfizer would need to make a knockout offer at a big premium to its last bid of 55 pounds a share, which many analysts view as unlikely given Read's reluctance to close the gap in May to the 58.85 pounds AstraZeneca indicated it wanted.  CANCER DRUG HOPES The one factor that could force AstraZeneca CEO Pascal Soriot back to the table this month would be sustained pressure from his shareholders, a number of whom are disgruntled that he let Pfizer's offer slip away. Yet there has been no high-profile investor rebellion so far - and Soriot has been steadily building up hopes for his company's new cancer drugs, adding respiratory medicines through a deal with Almirall and putting behind him a damaging U.S. investigation into heart drug Brilinta. AstraZeneca aims to present more convincing evidence for its experimental medicines at a cancer conference in Madrid in late September, and Soriot intends to highlight the potential of the full line-up of new drugs at an investor day on Nov. 18. The decision to time that investor event just one week before Pfizer has a free hand to renew its approaches suggests AstraZeneca is "very unlikely" to invite Pfizer to make a new offer once the three-month cooling off period ends next week, according to analysts at Jefferies. Political uncertainty has also played into the British group's hands to some extent, with recent U.S. threats to clamp down on tax inversions provoking fears that such tax-saving deals may in future be blocked. Following the failure to buy AstraZeneca in May, healthcare bankers says Pfizer has been looking at other targets. Ireland-based Actavis would represent one good alternative, according to analysts at Leerink, and Berenberg believes Pfizer could even contemplate buying AstraZeneca's larger British rival GlaxoSmithKline. But neither offers as good a fit as AstraZeneca, whose pipeline of immune system-boosting cancer drugs would complement Pfizer's currently narrow oncology portfolio. AstraZeneca shares were 2.2 percent high at 43.79 pounds by 1.50 p.m. BST, outperforming a 0.6 percent gain in the European drugs sector.  (Editing by Mark Heinrich) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Bank of America sign is pictured in Encinitas, California(Reuters) - Bank of America Corp  has reached a $16.65 billion settlement with U.S. regulators to settle charges that it misled investors into buying troubled mortgage-backed securities. The settlement announced on Thursday by the U.S. Department of Justice calls for the second-largest U.S. bank to pay a $9.65 billion cash penalty, and provide about $7 billion of relief to struggling borrowers. It is expected to resolve the vast majority of the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank's remaining liabilities tied to its purchases of Countrywide Financial Corp, once the nation's largest mortgage lender and Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. Bank of America said the accord is expected to reduce third-quarter earnings by about $5.3 billion before taxes, or about 43 cents per share after taxes.  (Reporting by Aruna Viswanatha in Washington and Jonathan Stemple in New York; Editing by Susan Heavey) FREE AppDownload
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderBank of America has agreed to pay the U.S. government $16.65 billion to end a mortgage probe over mortgages sold before the financial crisis. This is a record penalty paid by a bank to the U.S. government.  Citigroup paid $7 billion and JPMorgan paid $13 billion to settle mortgage probes stemming from the financial crisis. "This historic resolution - the largest such settlement on record - goes far beyond ‘the cost of doing business," Attorney General Eric Holder said in a statement. Bank of America executives had been arguing for a lesser penalty. According to a Reuters report, executives at the bank tried to make an offer of $12 billion to settle the probe.  As part of the settlement, $7 billion will go to consumer relief.  The bank also said that the settlement primarily invovles conduct at Countrywide and Merrill Lynch, which they acquired during the financial crisis.  Here's the bank's press release: Bank of America announced today that it has reached a comprehensive settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice (DoJ), certain federal agencies and six states. The settlement includes releases on the securitization, origination, sale and other specified conduct relating to residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) and collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), and an origination release on residential mortgage loans sold to Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs) and private-label (PLS) RMBS trusts, or guaranteed by the Federal Housing Authority (FHA). The claims relate primarily to conduct that occurred at Countrywide and Merrill Lynch prior to Bank of America's acquisition of those entities. Bank of America will pay a total of $9.65 billion in cash and provide approximately $7.0 billion worth of consumer relief. The cash portion consists of a $5.02 billion civil monetary penalty and $4.63 billion in compensatory remediation payments. “We believe this settlement, which resolves significant remaining mortgage-related exposures, is in the best interests of our shareholders, and allows us to continue to focus on the future,” said Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan. The settlement resolves certain actual and potential civil claims by the DoJ, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and State Attorneys General from California, Delaware, Illinois, Kentucky, Maryland and New York (State AGs), all of which are members of the Residential Mortgage Backed Securities Working Group of the Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force; the FHA; and the Government National Mortgage Association (Ginnie Mae), as well as all pending claims against Bank of America entities brought by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). Borrower relief will be in the form of mortgage modifications, including first-lien principal and forbearance forgiveness and second-lien extinguishments, low- to moderate-income mortgage originations, and community reinvestment and neighborhood stabilization efforts, with initiatives focused on communities experiencing, or at risk of, urban blight. This includes lien releases, uninhabitable and abandoned property demolition, and remediation and property donations. Also, Bank of America will support the expansion of available affordable rental housing. Bank of America has committed to complete delivery of the relief by no later than August 31, 2018. The consumer relief will be subject to oversight by an independent monitor. The settlement is expected to reduce third-quarter 2014 pretax earnings by $5.3 billion, or approximately $0.43 per share after tax. The EPS impact reflects the varying tax treatment of the components of the settlement. The settlement resolves matters pertaining to certain pending civil enforcement investigations, including investigations by the DoJ and the State AGs relating to RMBS, CDOs and related mortgage activities, including origination, by Bank of America, Countrywide, Merrill Lynch and their affiliates. The claims released include current and potential claims for securitization-related conduct occurring prior to January 1, 2009 under the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act (FIRREA). The origination release with respect to loans sold to PLS trusts covers all loans originated by Bank of America and its legacy entities and securitized prior to January 1, 2009; the origination release with respect to loans sold to the GSEs covers all loans sold to the GSEs by Bank of America or Countrywide prior to December 31, 2013. The FHA release covers loans originated by Bank of America or Countrywide on or after May 1, 2009, on which claims were submitted on or before December 31, 2013 to the FHA. The settlement does not cover potential criminal claims; potential claims against individuals; and certain purported whistleblower actions. In addition, it does not cover the O’Donnell case (High Speed Swim Lane). The company has reviewed the most recent court ruling in this case, issued on July 30, 2014, and will file an appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Forward-looking Statements Certain statements in this news release represent the current expectations, plans or forecasts of Bank of America based on available information and are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements often use words like “expects,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “targets,” “intends,” “plans,” “predict,” “goal” and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “may,” “might,” “should,” “would” and “could.” Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and Bank of America undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date the forward-looking statement was made. These statements are not guarantees of future results or performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict and are often beyond Bank of America's control. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, any forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement and should consider all of the uncertainties and risks discussed under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” of Bank of America's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 and in any of Bank of America's other subsequent Securities and Exchange Commission filings.  FREE AppDownload
Oil is having a brutal summer despite unrest in some of the world's top oil-producing countries. Abundant supply and sluggish demand continue to weigh on prices. At $101.44, London-traded Brent crude is down approximately 6% over the past three months and 12% since a brief mid-June run-up when investors were first grappling with the implications of terrorist group ISIS' gains in Iraq.  On Thursday, markets got more bearish news as Libya announced oil exports would resume out of Es Sider, its largest terminal and the last remaining port shut down by unrest, WSJ's Benoit Faucon reports. Prices fell nearly 1% Thursday morning.  Combined with recently resumed production at its largest oil field, the Sharara in the country's west, Libyan output has now jumped to 560,000 barrels a day, four times May's level, Faucon says.  As for Iraq, because most of Iraq's oil production is concentrated in the country's south, and ISIS-controlled territory remains clustered in the country's north, output has yet to be materially affected. Meanwhile, Western sanctions designed to punish Russian meddling in Ukraine were carefully carved out to avoid tripping up flows to Europe. Summer output remains mostly in line with previous years' levels, according to the IEA. Combined with the uninterrupted American shale boom, the IEA now sees 2014 supply growth of 1.6 mb/d, or 2.9%, compared with the 2.5% increase in 2013. The other factor weighing on prices is lack of demand, especially in Europe, where economic growth has seemingly ground to a halt. German consumption in Q2 fell 6% year-over-year, while Italian demand fell more than 3% in July. China also saw its demand growth forecast lowered to 2.9% from a prior 3.3% as its economy continued to slow. New York-traded West Texas Intermediate has had it even worse, down approximately 10% since June to $92.  Investing.com FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople walk past a Shake Shack restaurant in New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - Shake Shack, the fast-food restaurant chain that has developed a cult following for its 'Shackburgers', 'flat-top' hot dogs and eponymous shakes, has selected JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co and Morgan Stanley to lead a proposed initial public offering, according to people familiar with the matter. The potential offering, which could come as soon as this year according to the people, would be the biggest public event for a company that started out of a hot dog kiosk in New York's Madison Square Park in 2004. While Shake Shack is expected to post earnings of around $20 million next year and the size of the IPO is likely to be small, underwriting one of the biggest burger names in the United States is a plum assignment for investment banks JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley. Shake Shack's majority owner, Union Square Hospitality Group LLC, interviewed investment banks in recent weeks to appoint underwriters for the IPO, Reuters first reported last week. Representatives for Shake Shack, Union Square Hospitality, JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Shake Shack would likely be the most-followed IPO out of a string of casual dining chains that have gone public this year. They include El Pollo Loco Holdings Inc &lt;loco.o&gt;, Zoe's Kitchen Inc &lt;zoes.n&gt; and Papa Murphy's Holdings Inc &lt;frsh.o&gt;. Shake Shack is present in many U.S. states including New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Florida and Massachusetts. It has also expanded internationally in cities such as London, Istanbul, Moscow and Dubai. The company does not franchise and says it has no plans to do so in the future. Shake Shack's chief executive is Randy Garutti, a Cornell University graduate who worked his way up at Union Square Hospitality from general manager at its restaurants to lead Shake Shack. Union Square Hospitality was founded by restaurateur Danny Meyer in 1985. It also runs other popular New York eateries, including Blue Smoke, Gramercy Tavern and Union Square Cafe. Private equity firm Leonard Green &amp; Partners LP agreed to acquire a 39.5 percent stake Union Square Hospitality in 2012 for an undisclosed amount.   (Editing by Soyoung Kim and Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogContrary to popular belief, wages have been rising a bit faster than prices. In other words, real wages haven’t stagnated as widely believed, but have been moving higher, albeit at a slow pace: (1) Real hourly wage rate. Average hourly earnings for all workers divided by the core personal consumption expenditures deflator (PCED) rose to a record high during February of this year. It edged down in June, but was up 0.4% y/y. This measure of real hourly wages is up 6.7% since the start of the data during March 2006. Using the headline PCED, real hourly wages also rose to a record high during February of this year and are up 5.2% since the start of the data. That’s not great, but it isn’t stagnation either. (2) Real wages per worker. I calculate earned income per worker by dividing wages and salaries in personal income by payroll employment. It was at a record high of $49,500 during June. Dividing this series by the headline PCED shows that real wages and salaries per worker is up 1.4% y/y, and 6.0% since the start of 2006. Again, that’s not great, but it isn’t stagnation either. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Jackson Hole. (1) Central bankers just wanna have fun. (2) Talking about the dynamics of the labor market. (3) Are investors jumping the gun ahead of Yellen? (4) She won’t let us down. (5) Pleasing the boss. (6) Less slack, yet wage and price inflation remain subdued. (7) Wage stagnation is a bit of a myth. (8) Drilling down to forward earnings by industries finds some gushers. (9) Standouts include Internet Retail, Oil &amp; Gas Exploration, Consumer Finance, Biotech, Semiconductors, Specialty Chemicals, and Gas Utilities. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike SegarJob seekers stand in line to meet with prospective employers at a career fair in New York City, October 24, 2012.Jobless claims fell to 298,000 for the week ended August 16. Expectations were for claims to fall to 303,000 from last week's 311,000. Last week's claims number was also revised up to 312,000, according to the latest report from the Department of Labor. Continuing claims came in at 2,500,000, better than the 2,520,000 that was expected.  The four week moving average of jobless claims rose from last week, to 300,750 from last week's revised number of 296,000.  Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "The downward trend continues, and is consistent with strong payroll numbers." Shepherdson added that, "This time last year, claims were trending at about 335K, so the improvement has been substantial, and enough on its own to suggest that payroll growth should be able to sustain a pace close to 250K per month." This chart from Pantheon shows initial claims and the 8-week moving average, which is now hovering around 300,000.  Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fabrizio Bensch Here's a very important and interesting forecast from Citi's top economist, Willem Buiter. He expects both the Bank of Japan and the European Central Bank to engage in "major" quantitative easing programs later this year or early next year. This is because their economies are flagging, particularly in Europe, where inflation expectations are collapsing. On the flipside, the Fed and the Bank of England are both expected to begin the normalization process (rate hikes) fairly soon (sometime next year). Indeed, in both the minutes for the BoE and the Fed on Wednesday, there were signs that more monetary policymakers are ready to get on with the hiking. Anyway, here's Buiter: We believe that early easing by both the BoJ and ECB is more likely than the consensus view. We look for both central banks to downgrade their economic forecasts and to launch major QE programs in Q4-14 or perhaps Q1-15. In the euro area, inflation is close to zero, inflation expectations are falling sharply, while weakness in Q2 GDP and recent business surveys suggest that growth is unlikely to be strong enough to prevent a sustained inflation undershoot. In Japan, recent comments suggest that the BoJ is now becoming more worried about growth prospects, in light of weak data after the tax hike. We regard the BoJ’s semi-annual forecast update in late-October as a likely trigger for further easing, especially given the prospect that the government will proceed with the second consumption tax hike in 2015. By contrast, the U.K. remains likely to tighten in the next six months or so, with the Fed likely to start to hike rates about a year from now. As for Europe, we just got fresh data this morning that indeed, things are still awful. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Frederick Murphy/CDC/HandoutSome of the ultrastructural morphology displayed by an Ebola virus virionDr. Kent Brantly, who had contracted the Ebola virus in Liberia, was released from Atlanta's Emory University Hospital after being treated with experimental drug ZMapp. ZMapp was developed by Mapp Biopharmaceutical, a privately held company. It's not to be confused with MAP Pharmceuticals, which was acquired by Allergan in 2013. Tekmira Pharmaceuticals, which also has an experimental Ebola drug in the works, is up by around 5% in pre-market trading. It's unclear why. Here's the after-hours and pre-market moves in Tekmira according to MarketWatch. MarketWatch FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersKansas City Federal Reserve Bank President Esther George(Reuters) - The time has come for the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates, a top U.S. central banker said on Thursday, citing improvements in the labor market. "I think the economy is already showing signs [of improvement]," Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank President Esther George, who is not a voting member on the Fed's policymaking committee this year, told U.S. network CNBC in an interview. "I don't want us to be behind the curve in beginning to normalize interest rates," she said. "When you see the economy getting as close as we are to full employment, to stable inflation, it would suggest to me that the time has come to do that."   (Reporting by Jason Lange in Washington; Editing by Bill Trott) FREE AppDownload
@BrianSozzi(Reuters) - Dollar Tree Inc &lt;dltr.o&gt; reported a 2.6 percent fall in quarterly profit as costs increased. Net income fell to $121.5 million, or 59 cents per share, in the second quarter ended Aug. 2 from $124.7 million, or $1.25 per share, a year earlier. Revenue jumped 9.5 percent to $2.03 billion. Same-store sales rose 4.5 percent on a constant-currency basis. Analysts on average had expected a 2.5 percent rise, according to research firm Consensus Metrix. Dollar Tree, which operates the Dollar Tree, Deal$ and Dollar Bills stores, agreed to buy Family Dollar Stores Inc &lt;fdo.n&gt; in July. The bid has since been trumped by Dollar General Corp &lt;dg.n&gt;.   (Reporting by Devika Krishna Kumar in Bangalore; Editing by Joyjeet Das) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tatyana Makeyeva People outside a closed McDonald's restaurant in Moscow on Wednesday.Russia ramped up its scrutiny of McDonald's restaurants on Thursday, as the state food safety watchdog began unscheduled checks in several Russian regions, a day after four branches in Moscow were shuttered by the same agency. The food safety agency cited breaches of sanitary rules by restaurants in the fast-food chain, but the action came after Moscow and the West imposed tit-for-tat sanctions over the conflict in Ukraine. The agency denied that its actions were politically motivated. "There are complaints about the quality and safety of the products in fast-food restaurant chain McDonald's," said the regulatory agency, known in Russian as Rospotrebnadzor. It declined to comment on the scope of the planned checks. The regulator said on Thursday that it was already conducting checks at McDonald's outlets in the Ural mountains region of Sverdlovsk, the Volga region of Tatarstan, the central Voronezh region, and the Moscow region. It also plans checks in the republic of Bashkortostan and the southern Krasnodar region. Some of the checks are unscheduled. Natalya Lukyantseva, an official of the regulator's branch in the Sverdlovsk region, said checks had been started because of complaints from customers. "We are aware of what is going on. We have always been and are now open to any checks," a McDonald's Russian spokeswoman said. She could not comment on the reasons for the checks. On Wednesday, the agency ordered the suspension of operations at four McDonald's restaurants in Moscow over what it said were "numerous" sanitary law breaches. The shuttered restaurants include one on Moscow's Pushkin Square, which McDonald's says is the busiest in its global network of restaurants. For a generation of Russians who saw the first McDonald's open in the dying days of the Soviet Union in 1990, the restaurants were a symbol of American capitalism. For most Muscovites now, they are just a part of the urban landscape. McDonald's operates 438 restaurants in Russia and considers the country one of its top seven major markets outside the U.S. and Canada, according to its 2013 annual report. Last month, Rospotrebnadzor's branch in the Novgorod region opened a court case against McDonald's as a result of the June inspections of its restaurants. It said at the time that McDonald's was deceiving consumers about the energy value of its burgers and about nutritional value of its desserts and that its vegetable salad was contaminated with harmful bacteria. (Additional reporting by Natalia Shurmina in Yekaterinburg and Maria Kiselyova; Editing by Larry Kings) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Wall Street sign is pictured in the rain outside the New York Stock ExchangeBy Chuck Mikolajczak NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures edged higher on Thursday, ahead of a flurry of economic data and the start of the meeting of top central bankers and economists in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Policymakers are due to discuss the labor markets of major economies at the Aug. 21-23 meeting, with U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen scheduled to speak Friday. Investors will peruse officials' remarks for clues on the timing of an interest rate hike. The S&amp;P 500  rose for a third straight day on Wednesday, narrowly missing a record close by less than 2 points, after minutes from the Fed's July meeting led investors to believe the central bank was looking for confirmation in the labor market's recovery before raising rates. Investors will digest a host of economic data prior to the start of the Jackson Hole conference, with weekly initial jobless claims data due at 8:30 a.m. EDT (1230 GMT). Expectations call for claims to fall to 300,000 from the 311,000 claims in the prior week. At 9:45 a.m. (1345 GMT), financial data firm Markit will release its preliminary U.S. Manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index for August. The Thomson Reuters estimate calls for a 55.7 reading versus the prior 55.8 reading in July. Shortly after that, at 10:00 a.m. (1400 GMT), existing home sales for July, the Philadelphia Fed business index for August and the Conference Board's gauge of leading economic indicators will be released. S&amp;P 500 e-mini futures  were up 3 points and fair value - a formula that evaluates pricing by taking into account interest rates, dividends and time to expiration on the contract - indicated a modestly higher open. Dow Jones industrial average e-mini futures  rose 33 points and Nasdaq 100 e-mini futures  added 4 points. Bank of America  gained 0.6 percent to $15.61 before the opening bell. The bank is expected to pay more than $16.5 billion to end investigations into mortgage securities the bank and its units sold ahead of the financial crisis, in a deal that could be announced as early as Thursday, a person familiar with the matter said. Hewlett-Packard Co  posted a surprise increase in quarterly revenue after sales from its personal computer division climbed 12 percent, but a flat to declining performance from its other units underscored an uphill battle to revive growth. Its shares dipped 0.3 percent to $35 in premarket trading. Sears Holdings  shed 1.2 percent to $35.51 in light premarket trade after the owner of Sears department stores and the Kmart discount chain reported a ninth straight quarterly loss. Earnings are expected from Gap Inc , Salesforce.com  and GameStop  later on Thursday. European shares rose, with Germany's DAX index  climbing to a three-week high after a survey showed the country's private sector grew for the 16th month running in August. [.EU] Asian shares came under pressure as a disappointing survey on Chinese manufacturing overshadowed better news from Japan.  (Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThousands of pro-Beijing protesters gather to march in the streets to demonstrate against a pro-democracy Occupy Central campaign in Hong KongSHENZHEN China (Reuters) - Chinese officials and Hong Kong democrats failed on Thursday to resolve a standoff over political reforms in the freewheeling former British colony, a deadlock that could end up shutting down the city's financial district next month. Hong Kong, which returned to Chinese rule in 1997, has been roiled over the past year over how its next leader is chosen in 2017 - by universal suffrage, as the democrats would like, or from a list of pro-Beijing candidates. A so-called Occupy Central campaign of civil disobedience has threatened to blockade Hong Kong's Central business district if Beijing doesn't allow open nominations, rather than pre-screening candidates and restricting the poll to pro-Beijing "patriots" and those who "love China". Thursday's meeting just over the Hong Kong border in Shenzhen was seen as a last chance to narrow differences ahead of a parliamentary meeting in Beijing next week that will formally lay out Beijing's position on the 2017 poll. While both sides said the dialogue was sincere and encouraging, there was little sign of compromise. Li Fei, the chairman of China's Basic Law Committee who met the Hong Kong lawmakers, reiterated the Basic Law, or Hong Kong's mini-constitution, made no allowance for open nominations. "We will also not allow public nomination of chief executive candidates, occupying central and other related crimes. This remains one of the biggest arguments in Hong Kong today," he told reporters in a luxury hotel where the talks were held. Hong Kong returned to China's rule under a principle of "one country, two systems" allowing it broad autonomy and far more freedom of speech, assembly and religion than exists on the mainland. But China has made it plain that Beijing's sovereignty cannot be questioned. Helena Wong, a democratic party lawmaker, said Beijing must allow "true full democracy, not fake democracy". The democrats also handed out copies of a report reflecting public demands for a fair election including opposition candidates, after an unofficial referendum last month that drew more than 800,000 votes. Some 26 pro-democracy lawmakers recently pledged in a declaration to veto any "unfair" reform plan that does not meet international standards. Any electoral reform proposal must garner the support of at least two-thirds of the city's 70-member legislature in order to pass, as well as being ultimately approved by Beijing. "Time is already running short and the opportunity for discussion is precious and hard to come by. This is the last chance for open communication," Rita Fan, a Hong Kong delegate to China's parliament, said after meeting the Chinese officials. Chinese officials and Hong Kong businesses have warned any shutdown of the city's financial district could damage Hong Kong's economy and reputation. (Additional reporting by Diana Chan; Editing by Nick Macfie) FREE AppDownload
ReutersA pressure-gauge is seen at a gas-distributing station after it was opened near the village of Atolino, some 20km (12 miles) south of Minsk, November 22, 2012.Russian natural gas exporter Gazprom said on Thursday that Ukraine's outstanding debt for gas supplies stood at $5.3 billion as of Aug. 1 and called on Kiev to ensure that gas continues to transit without disruption to Europe. "Gazprom counts on Naftogaz of Ukraine to stick to its obligations on redemptions of arrears for the supplied gas and provision of smooth gas transit via Ukraine's territory," Gazprom spokesman Sergei Kupriyanov said. Russia cut off gas supplies to Ukraine on June 16 in a dispute over unpaid bills. However, Russian gas shipments to Europe via Ukraine have flowed without interruptions since. It is the third pricing dispute in a decade between the two sides and past standoffs have led to disruptions in supply to Europe. About half of the gas Gazprom shipped to Europe last year went via Ukraine. Ukraine wants to pay $268.50 per 1,000 cubic meters of gas - a price it was offered at the end of last year when pro-Moscow Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovich was still in power. It has said it is ready to compromise. Moscow has sought to keep the price at a 2009 level of $485 per 1,000 cubic meters, but has offered to waive an export duty, bringing prices down to $385, broadly in line with what Russia charges other European states. A series of talks between Moscow and Kiev, brokered by the European Commission, have failed to find a compromise. Russian President Vladimir Putin and Ukrainian counterpart Petro Poroshenko are due to attend crisis talks inMinsk on Aug. 26 in an attempt to resolve a confrontation over Ukraine which has plunged relations between the two countries to an all-time low. Kupriyanov also said Gazprom had paid an additional payment of $10.54 million to Ukraine's state energy firmNaftogaz in July for gas transit. Naftogaz said it will return the $10 million saying it was "paid in error", news agency Interfax Ukraine reported on Thursday.   (Reporting by Vladimir Soldatkin; editing by Jason Neely) FREE AppDownload
Margin CallDave Lutz of JonesTrading has the top topics about which traders are discussing Thursday. US Futures are charging forward by 20bp early (but Russell read AGAIN) - Doves are bidding up Europe as Draghi and Kuroda board Gulfstreams to Wyoming (Agenda released tonight, ahead of Janet tomorrow at 10amET) – The DAX is up 25bp as EU PMI light, but not terrible - Germany and France were OK, suggesting the periphery weakened (PIIGS Markets jumping) – Volumes remain awful as no one making heavy bets in Jackson Hole and August Vacations take hold. Thinks remain quiet in Ukraine ahead of Putin’s meeting next week, Russia on it’s longest winning streak in 9 years right now (but they closed more MCD’s) - Over in Asia, the Nikkei jumped as the Yen is breaking down quickly – while China Flash PMI comes in light, halting that Rally. Insurer Numbers are buoying Aussie as Materials get hit on Gold drop.   US Yields are up very slightly, while German 10’s are trying to hold above 1% - 2Y German paper still negative. The DXY is nearing 1Y highs, causing a major headwind for commodities. Gold has broken the 200dma as near 2M lows despite Gaza talks collapsing – while Weaker China data weighing on Industrial Commodities – Copper, Nickel and Lead all giving back some of yesterday’s gains. US Natty gas is jumping into Storage #s (Chatter LNG pickup in Asia, as well as drop in EU inventories), while the Oil complex is under pressure, with Brent nearing a test of recent lows. Scheduled Catalysts today include Weekly Claims at 8:30 – 9:45 brings Markit PMI, at 10 we get Philadelphia Fed; Leading Index; Existing Home Sales for July in the USA, and Consumer Confidence in EuroLand. The week’s largest POMO is at 11 – and Thursday night we will get the release of the Jackson Hole Speeches and Agenda at 8 p.m. (according to WSJ) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ahmad MousaShi'ite volunteers, who have joined the Iraqi army to fight against militants of the Islamic State, during field training in Najaf on Wednesday.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: China Is Slowing. China's flash manufacturing PMI fell to a three-month low of 50.3 in August, signaling decelerating growth in the world's second-largest economy. This was worse than the 51.5 expected by economists. "Both domestic and external new orders rose at slower rates compared to the previous month," HSBC's Hongbin Qu said. "Meanwhile, disinflationary pressure returned as input and output prices contracted over the month ... We think more policy support is needed to help consolidate the recovery. Both monetary and fiscal policy should remain accommodative until there is a more sustained rebound in economic activity." Europe Is Slowing. The eurozone's flash manufacturing PMI was also disappointing, falling to 52.8 in August. This was down from 53.8 in July and worse than the 53.4 expected by economists. "Even before rising geopolitical headwinds began to buffet the economy, the double-digit unemployment rate prevailing in the eurozone was already excessively high," noted Markit's Rob Dobson. "Signs are that the modest job creation of recent months has stalled in August." Could Europe Possibly Be Worse Than We Think? Growth in the eurozone screeched to a halt in Q2. Pantheon Macro Economics notes that the PMI reports were actually stronger back then, which suggests we are seeing no Q3 rebound in the local economy. "The the real story is the ongoing relative weakness in the industrial sector," Pantheon's Claus Vistesen said. "This rather worrying trend is driven mainly by the slump in France, but the manufacturing sector is also relatively weak in Germany indicating a wide divergence between these two industries in Europe. The services sector accounts for the largest share of the economy, but movements in the manufacturing sector tends to have a better correlation with movements in GDP. Our bet is that a big part of the recent indication that the headline eurozone PMI is overestimating growth is probably due to this divergence. We expect Q3 GDP to be better than the poor 0.0% quarter-on-quarter due to a rebound in German growth, but the sequential drop in the manufacturing PMIs, and the fact that the Q3 composite PMI is now lower relative to Q2 has increased risks to the downside." Markets Are Up. U.S. futures are rallying, with Dow futures up 34 points and S&amp;P 500 futures up 3 points. In Europe, Britain's FTSE is up 0.2%, France's CAC 40 is up 0.6%, and Germany's DAX is up 0.4%. In Asia, Japan closed up 0.8% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed down 0.6%. Lots Of US Economic Data Coming. Things kick off in the U.S. with weekly initial jobless claim. The economists estimate ticked up to 303,000 from 311,000 a week ago. "Although claims ticked up in the latest week, the overall trend appears to be lower, suggesting that the labor market is continuing to improve," Nomura economists said. 2 US Manufacturing Reports. Markit's preliminary U.S. PMI will be released at 9:45 a.m. ET. Economists estimate this manufacturing index slipped to 55.7 in August, down from 55.8 in July. That report will be followed by the Philadelphia Fed's Business Outlook report at 10 a.m. ET. Economists estimate this activity index fell to 19.7 in August from 23.9 in July. "A key indicator of future activity within the survey, the new orders sub-index, jumped by almost 20 pts in July and provides support for manufacturing activity in the near term," Nomura economists said. "It is possible that the recent volatility in markets could weigh on business sentiment this month, providing some downside risk." Housing Market Update. Also at 10 a.m. is the existing home sale report. Economists estimate the pace of sales fell 0.5% in July to an annualized rate of 5.02 million. "Leading indicators for existing home sales have been weak, as pending home sales dropped 4.5% in June on a year-ago basis and consumers reporting plans to buy a home dropped a percentage point in July to its lowest level this year," Wells Fargo's John Silvia said. "Mortgage rates, which rose in the first half of the year, have moderated slightly and could help fuel demand for existing home sales moving forward." American Doctor Who Had Ebola Has Been Released. "An American doctor who contracted Ebola treating victims of the deadly virus in Liberia has been released from a U.S. hospital after receiving treatment with an experimental drug, his charity said on Thursday," reported Reuters' Joe Bavier. "Kent Brantly was given ZMapp, a trial drug used on a handful of patients in the West African outbreak, and flown to the United States this month. He was released from Atlanta's Emory University Hospital, according to a statement from Samaritan's Purse." Who Makes ZMapp?!?! ZMapp was developed by Mapp Biopharmaceutical, a privately held company. It's not to be confused with MAP Pharmceuticals, which was acquired by Allergan in 2013. Oddly, Tekmira Pharmaceuticals, which also has an experimental ebola drug in the works, is up by around 7% in pre-market trading. Wall Street's Junior Bankers Should Stand By For A Raise. According to a series of reports from Bloomberg and Reuters, Wall Street's biggest banks are preparing to raise the pay for junior employees by at least 20%. Among the banks cited were JP Morgan Chase, Bank of America, Goldman Sachs, and Citigroup. *HEADS UP: The Kansas City Fed's annual Economic Symposium kicks off Thursday evening. Fed Chair Janet Yellen presents on Friday morning. "Clearly, the conference topic — 'Re-Evaluating Labor Market Dynamics' — offers plenty of room for discussion," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Ethan Harris. "Hence, if the Chair wants to be a bit more interesting, presumably, she will talk a bit about why she still sees a long recovery ahead in the labor market, pointing to the weakness in wages and broader measures of slack." The agenda will be released at 8 p.m. ET. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA customer enters the closing down Sears store is shown in downtown Vancouver(Reuters) - Sears Holdings Corp &lt;shld.o&gt;, owner of Sears department stores and Kmart discount chain, reported its ninth straight quarterly loss as sales continued their decade-long fall. Loss attributable to shareholders widened to $573 million, or $5.39 per share, in the second quarter ended Aug. 2 from $194 million, or $1.83 per share, a year earlier. The company, controlled by billionaire hedge fund manager Eddie Lampert, said revenue fell 9.7 percent to $8.01 billion. Sears Canada Inc, in which Sears holds a 51 percent stake, reported on Wednesday its ninth loss in 14 quarters as sales continued to decline.   (Reporting by Shailaja Sharma in Bangalore; Editing by Kirti Pandey) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersHandout photo of Dr. Kent Brantly speaking with colleagues at the case management center on the campus of ELWA Hospital in MonroviaABIDJAN (Reuters) - An American doctor who contracted Ebola treating victims of the deadly virus in Liberia has recovered and will be discharged on Thursday by the U.S. hospital that treated him with an experimental drug, his charity said. Kent Brantly was given ZMapp, a drug used on a handful of patients in the West African outbreak and produced by U.S.-based Mapp Biopharmaceutical. Atlanta, Georgia's Emory University Hospital said it would hold a news conference to discuss Brantly's case and that of a second American, Nancy Writebol, being treated there with ZMapp. Mapp says its supplies of the drug have been exhausted. Brantly will leave Emory hospital after the news conference, a spokesperson for the charity Samaritan's Purse said. "I have marveled at Dr. Brantly’s courageous spirit as he has fought this horrible virus with the help of the highly competent and caring staff at Emory University Hospital," Samaritan's Purse president Franklin Graham said in a statement. The World Health Organization said on Wednesday that 2,473 people have been infected and 1,350 have died since the Ebola outbreak was identified in remote southeastern Guinea in March. It said that no cases of the disease had been confirmed outside of Guinea, Sierra Leone, Liberia and Nigeria - the countries affected by the outbreak - despite cases having been suspected elsewhere. A senior health official in Togo said on Thursday that two suspected cases, including a sailor from the Philippines, were being tested for the virus. Three African doctors, also treated with ZMapp in Liberia, have shown remarkable signs of improvement, Liberia's Information Minister Lewis Brown told Reuters on Tuesday. (Editing by Daniel Flynn and John Stonestreet) FREE AppDownload
A cargo ship run by Danish shipping and oil conglomerate AP Moeller Maersk has set the world record by hauling 17,603 containers, World Maritime news reports. The Maersk Triple-E, the world's largest ship, set the mark on July 21 when it left Algeciras, Spain, on its way to Tanjung Pelepas, Malaysia. The Triple-E has a full potential capacity of 18,270 20-foot equivalent units (TEU).  Maersk raised its full-year profit guidance on Tuesday after quarterly results boosted by its robust container shipping business. Here's a graphic, published last year by Reuters, that details the Maersk Triple-E. REUTERS    FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersLabourers work at a construction site of residential buildings in HefeiBy Jonathan Cable and Xiaoyi Shao LONDON/BEIJING - Business growth in China and across Europe slowed this month, surveys showed on Thursday, providing more evidence that the world economy is stuttering and may need more monetary stimulus to keep it going. Euro zone private business activity expanded slower than expected in August, despite widespread price cutting. This is before the full effects of sanctions imposed on and by Russia over Ukraine are felt. Meanwhile, China's manufacturing activity hit a three-month low in August and a Reuters poll showed Japan's economic recovery is likely to be modest despite a small acceleration in the factory sector. Data due later from the United States is expected to show a similar slowdown. "If you take all these things together we are clearly looking at a global economy that doesn't have a huge amount of momentum behind it," said Peter Dixon at Commerzbank. Markit's Composite Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) for the euro zone will provide gloomy reading for the European Central Bank (ECB) as it showed the big two economies of Germany and France struggling. Based on surveys of thousands of companies across the region and a good indicator of overall growth, the Composite Flash PMI fell to 52.8 from July's 53.8, far short of expectations in a Reuters poll for a modest dip to 53.4. However, readings above 50 do indicate expansion and Markit said the data point to third-quarter economic growth of 0.3 percent, matching predictions from a Reuters poll last week. But there are challenges facing the economy now that it didn't have to worry about a few months ago. Europe and others in the West imposed economic sanctions on Moscow over the Kremlin's support for rebels in eastern Ukraine, prompting a tit-for-tat response from Russian President Vladimir Putin. "It is clearly premature to start fretting about a new downturn," said Martin van Vliet at ING. "That said, with geopolitical tensions increasingly posing a threat to the subdued and fragile upturn it is clearly premature to assume that the ECB's easing work is fully done." Companies in Europe are beginning to show signs of strain. Germany's Adidas, the world's number-two sportswear firm, cut its profit target due to the ruble's fall and increasing risks to Russian consumer sentiment. Brewer Heineken said its sales volume in Russia fell by a "low-double digit" percentage. The composite PMI in Germany - Russia's biggest trade partner in the European Union which has already seen exports to the country plunge in the first half of the year - fell to 54.9 from 55.7. For France, the euro zone's second largest economy, the Composite PMI rose from 49.4 to the break-even mark at 50, meaning it is neither expanding nor contracting. In Britain, which does not use the euro, consumers have been the main driver of the country's economic recovery which began last year. But retail sales rose in July at a weaker pace than expected.   ASIAN STUMBLE The PMI for Japan showed factory activity accelerated in August as export and domestic demand increased, in another sign the economy is steadying after shrinking in the second quarter due to a sales tax increase. But the Reuters Tankan survey indicated the economic recovery is likely to be modest, which could keep pressure on the central bank to act to sustain growth in the world's third largest economy. HSBC/Markit's Flash China Manufacturing PMI fell to 50.3 in August from July's 18-month high of 51.7, badly missing a Reuters forecast of 51.5 but just above the 50 threshold. "The sharp drop in the PMI is perhaps not surprising given last month's disappointing activity and lending data. That said, we are not expecting a rapid deterioration in economic momentum," Julian Evans-Pritchard, China economist at Capital Economics, wrote in a note. "Meanwhile, we expect the government to continue to fine tune policy as necessary to prevent growth from slipping too much over the coming quarters." A burst of policy stimulus since April lifted China's annual economic growth to 7.5 percent in the second quarter - in line with the full-year official growth target - from 7.4 percent in the first quarter - the weakest pace in 18 months. But with conditions looking increasingly unsteady into the third quarter as policy support moderated, some analysts say even more stimulus may be needed in coming months to bolster growth and offset the downdraft from the housing market. "Definitely there will be more measures to keep growth momentum steady in coming months," said Zhu Qibing, an economist at Minzu Securities in Beijing. "But we don't expect interest rate cuts in the near term as the central bank has reiterated that it would keep its prudent monetary policy unchanged." Similarly, no action is expected from the ECB in the coming months as it waits to see what effect another round of temporary access to cheap cash for banks has on inflation and growth. Consumer prices in the euro zone rose just 0.4 percent on the year in July, the weakest annual rise since October 2009 at the height of the financial crisis, and well within the ECB's "danger zone" of below 1 percent. According to the composite output price index firms cut prices for the 29th month - and at a faster rate than in July.         (Additional reporting by Tetsushi Kajimoto in Tokyo Editing by Jeremy Gaunt) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Pool/Sergei ChirikovThe clock at the Spasskaya towerShortly after Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 was shot down over Ukraine on July 17, the U.S. and European Union announced another round of new economic sanctions against Russia.  The restrictions banned government-affiliated Russian banks from issuing new debt or equity with maturity over 90 days in Western capital markets and blocked energy companies from importing equipment for deep-water drilling and fracking. Russia won’t feel the pain of these moves immediately, and if relations with Ukraine normalize soon, the country may escape relatively unscathed. But if sanctions drag on for another six months to a year, they could put the brakes on both critical business sectors and the larger economy, according to Credit Suisse’s Private Banking and Wealth Management Division. Russia’s economy has been weakening substantially, with GDP growth slowing from above 4 percent in 2010  and 2011 to just 1.3 percent in 2013, and economists expect it to grow 0.5 percent this year. But so far, sanctions don’t seem to have made things any worse. Russia’s composite Purchasing Managers’ Index rose from 50.1 in June to a seven-month high of 51.3 in July, with a particularly strong uptick in manufacturing output. GDP grew 0.8 percent in the second quarter, down only slightly from 0.9 percent in the first quarter. Meanwhile, the ruble is trading around 36 to the dollar, 6.7 percent weaker than a recent low of 33.7 in late June, but no worse than during a broader emerging market selloff in February. A large current account surplus ($17.1 billion in the second quarter) and recent central bank tightening (rates increased from 7.5 to 8 percent in late July) should also help protect the ruble going forward. For now, healthy internal balance sheets and the backstop of Russia’s $468.8 billion (22 percent of GDP) as of mid-July in foreign currency reserves should allow sanctioned banks to repay $48 billion in Eurobond payments due between 2015 and 2019 without needing to access additional Western capital. The Russian government has also allowed several government-affiliated banks to convert subordinated loans from the Central Bank of Russia and VEB, a state-owned development bank, into preferred shares. “We deem the exercise credit positive to the quasi-government banks at a time when their access to international capital markets for funding has been closed,” Wingson Cheng, Head of APAC Research in Credit Suisse’s Private Banking and Wealth Management Division, wrote in a recent note. “In the short run, the government-related banks have sufficient on-balance sheet liquidity, prefunding, or available funding through other avenues.” Credit Suisse therefore believes that the sanctioned banks are unlikely to default on $48 billion in outstanding Eurobonds, but that doesn’t mean investors who hold those bonds are out of the woods, and perceived riskiness of bank-issued debt will continue rising as long as Russian financial institutions remain shut out of international capital markets. Likewise for the energy sector, which comprises some 30 percent of Russian GDP, where the sanctions are unlikely to cause serious problems unless they extend well into the future. The primary reason: Most of Russia’s oil production takes place in conventional fields that don’t need the kind of advanced equipment Western countries have stopped providing. But long-term sanctions on advanced technology could well delay efforts to develop Russia’s Arctic resources, as well as the huge reserves of so-called tight oil believed to be pent up in hard-to-reach shale formations. Tight oil currently accounts for just 1 percent of Russia’s total production, but the U.S. Energy Information Administration believes Western Siberia’s Bazhenov formation contains 75 billion of recoverable crude oil, which would make it the largest such reserve in the world. The ultimate length and severity of current and possible future sanctions depends, of course, on how the Russia/Ukraine situation develops, but October, when European officials are due to review their policies, could be a make-or-break month. With winter just weeks away and Europe dependent on Russia for 30 percent of its gas supply, Credit Suisse doesn’t foresee the two most drastic scenarios – Russia literally cutting off gas supplies or launching a formal military campaign in Ukraine – although neither can be ruled out. The most likely scenario is that things continue as they are – and that won’t be any picnic for Russia. “There’s always a time lag before sanctions impact the economy,” says Marc Häfliger, an investment strategist in the Private Banking and Wealth Management Division. “Don’t underestimate the effect on business sentiment. If companies stop investing, it won’t start showing up in a real way for six months to a year.” Which is time enough for things to get back a little closer to…normal?  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sukree Sukplang European markets are are up early Thursday after new manufacturing reports from the euro zone showed growth slowed more than expected.  Here's the scorecard: Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.64%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.27%. Germany's DAX is up 0.41%.  Spain's IBEX is up 0.92% Italy's FTSE MIB is up 1.06%. The preliminary euro zone composite purchasing managers index (PMI) in August was 52.8, below the expected 53.4 and down from 53.8 the month before.  Asian markets closed mixed. Nikkei's 225 closed up 0.85% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index closed down 0.66%. US futures are up with Dow futures up 33 points and S&amp;P futures up 3.20 points. It's a big day for economic data out of the U.S.  The U.S. Department of Labor will release initial claims at 8:30 a.m. ET. Economists estimate weekly initial claims ticked up to 300,000 from 311,000 a week ago Markit U.S. Manufacturing PMI will come out at 10:45 a.m. ET. Economists estimate this manufacturing index slipped to 55.6 in August, down from 55.8 in July. The Philadelphia Business Outlook Survey is out at 10 a.m. ET. Economists estimate this activity index fell to 19.4 in August from 23.9 in July. Economists estimate the pace of existing homes sales fell 0.8% in July to an annualized rate of 5.00 million. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidNEW YORK (Reuters) - A former merchandising executive at teen apparel retailer Aeropostale Inc &lt;aro.n&gt; on Wednesday was sentenced to eight years in prison after being convicted of defrauding the company and taking more than $25 million in kickbacks from a key vendor. Christopher Finazzo, a former executive vice president and chief merchandising officer at Aeropostale, was also ordered by U.S. District Judge Roslynn Mauskopf in Brooklyn, New York, to forfeit more than $25 million and pay the company $13.7 million in restitution. Following a three-week trial, Finazzo, 57, was found guilty in April 2013 of 14 counts of mail fraud, wire fraud and conspiracy. Brooklyn U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch, who announced the sentencing Wednesday in a statement, said Finazzo "abused his position of power at Aeropostale and betrayed the trust placed in him by the company, its investors, and its employees by lining his own pockets at his employer's expense." Prosecutors at trial said Finazzo entered into an illegal deal with Douglas Dey, a movie producer and the owner of South Bay Apparel Inc, a firm that was once a major clothing supplier for Aeropostale. Under the deal, prosecutors said Finazzo from 1996 to 2006 caused the company to buy more than $350 million in T-shirt and fleece items from South Bay on behalf of Aeropostale in exchange for about 50 percent of the vendor's profits, prosecutors said. Prosecutors said the scheme enabled Finazzo to collect more than $25 million in kickbacks from South Bay. The executive hid the transactions from Aeropostale and its investors, prosecutors said, and prevented the retailer from seeking lower prices or better quality merchandise from another vendor. Dey, who in 2012 pleaded guilty to conspiring to violate the Travel Act, acted as an executive producer for several movies including "Blue Valentine," a 2010 drama starring Michelle Williams and Ryan Gosling. Dey, 57, was sentenced Aug. 6 to 3-1/2 years in prison. A lawyer for Finazzo did not respond to a request for comment. Aeropostale declined comment. The case is U.S. v. Finazzo et al., U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York, No. 10-457.   (Reporting by Nate Raymond in New York; Editing by Diane Craft) FREE AppDownload
MarkitNew manufacturing reports out of the eurozone suggest the economy isn't picking up significantly from the zero-growth experienced in Q2. The preliminary eurozone composite purchasing managers index (PMI) tumbled to 52.8 in August from 53.8 in July. While any reading above 50 signals growth, a decline number signals deceleration. Economists were forecasting 53.4 for the month. "With the PMI Output Index slipping slightly to 52.8, the region remains on course to register growth of only around 0.3%-0.4% in the third quarter, a level that is unlikely to stimulate any real turnaround in the labour market," wrote Markit's Rob Dobson. "Even before rising geopolitical headwinds began to buffet the economy, the double-digit unemployment rate prevailing in the eurozone was already excessively high. Signs are that the modest job creation of recent months has stalled in August." During the three months ending July, GDP registered 0.0% growth. And hopes for a recovery are quickly fading. "The PMI surveys for the euro area suggest that the economy may be stagnating again in the third quarter," wrote Bloomberg economists David Powell and Niraj Shah. "They also continue to point to weak inflationary pressures." The services sub-index fell to 53.8 from 54.2, and the manufacturing sub-index fell to 50.8 from 51.8. "The the real story is the ongoing relative weakness in the industrial sector," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. "This rather worrying trend is driven mainly by the slump in France, but the manufacturing sector is also relatively weak in Germany indicating a wide divergence between these two industries in Europe. The services sector accounts for the largest share of the economy, but movements in the manufacturing sector tends to have a better correlation with movements in GDP." Germany's manufacturing PMI fell to 52.0 in August from 52.4. France's fell to 46.5 from 47.8. "Our bet is that a big part of the recent indication that the headline eurozone PMI is overestimating growth is probably due to this divergence," Vistesen said. "We expect Q3 GDP to be better than the poor 0.0% quarter-on-quarter due to a rebound in German growth, but the sequential drop in the manufacturing PMIs, and the fact that the Q3 composite PMI is now lower relative to Q2 has increased risks to the downside." All of this puts increasing amounts a of pressure on the European Central Bank to ease monetary policy further in an effort to stimulate growth and stoke inflation. Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Chris Keane Well-known atheist and bestselling author Richard Dawkins. 1. The White House revealed that U.S. special forces tried to rescue James Foley and other American hostages in Syria this summer but failed.  2. GlobalPost CEO Philip Balboni told reporters Wednesday that James Foley's captors sent the journalist's family an email threatening to kill their son, days before his death.  2. A police officer was suspended indefinitely for pointing a rifle and screaming profanities at protestors in Ferguson, Missouri.  3. Hamas says Israel killed three senior commanders in the Gaza Strip on Thursday.  4. Gay and lesbian couples still can't marry in Virginia after the U.S. Supreme Court put a ruling to overturn the state's same-sex ban on hold.   5. Bank of America is nearing a $16.65 billion settlement over "accusations that it duped investors into buying toxic mortgage securities," The New York Times said.  6. Dollar Tree CEO Rick Dreiling says he was misled by Family Dollar CEO Howard Levine in earlier discussions about a potential takeover, Reuters reports. "At no time during this meeting did Mr. Levine indicate that there was a process, that there was any urgency to act or that there were discussions with another potential buyer," Dreiling wrote in a letter to Family Dollar's board.  7. A cyberattack on UPS may have left the payment details, names, and addresses of thousands of customers vulnerable to theft, The Financial Times reports. The breach occurred at 50 branches in the U.S. between Jan. 20 and Aug. 11.  8. British scientist and author Richard Dawkins is taking heat for saying on Twitter that it would be "immoral" for a mother to continue her pregnancy if she knew the baby would have Down syndrome. "Abort and try it again," Dawkins tweeted in response to a user who said she wouldn't know what to do if she was carrying a child with Down syndrome. @RichardDawkins 10. A new study suggests that Neanderthals lived among humans for more than 5,000 years, meaning they would have had to time to meet. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
MarkitNew manufacturing reports out of the eurozone suggest the economy isn't picking up significantly from the zero-growth experienced in Q2. The preliminary eurozone composite purchasing managers index (PMI) tumbled to 52.8 in August from 53.8 in July. While any reading above 50 signals growth, a decline number signals deceleration. Economists were forecasting 53.4 for the month. "With the PMI Output Index slipping slightly to 52.8, the region remains on course to register growth of only around 0.3%-0.4% in the third quarter, a level that is unlikely to stimulate any real turnaround in the labour market," wrote Markit's Rob Dobson. "Even before rising geopolitical headwinds began to buffet the economy, the double-digit unemployment rate prevailing in the eurozone was already excessively high. Signs are that the modest job creation of recent months has stalled in August." During the three months ending July, GDP registered 0.0% growth. And hopes for a recovery are quickly fading. "The PMI surveys for the euro area suggest that the economy may be stagnating again in the third quarter," wrote Bloomberg economists David Powell and Niraj Shah. "They also continue to point to weak inflationary pressures." The services sub-index fell to 53.8 from 54.2, and the manufacturing sub-index fell to 50.8 from 51.8. "The the real story is the ongoing relative weakness in the industrial sector," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. "This rather worrying trend is driven mainly by the slump in France, but the manufacturing sector is also relatively weak in Germany indicating a wide divergence between these two industries in Europe. The services sector accounts for the largest share of the economy, but movements in the manufacturing sector tends to have a better correlation with movements in GDP." Germany's manufacturing PMI fell to 52.0 in August from 52.4. France's fell to 46.5 from 47.8. "Our bet is that a big part of the recent indication that the headline eurozone PMI is overestimating growth is probably due to this divergence," Vistesen said. "We expect Q3 GDP to be better than the poor 0.0% quarter-on-quarter due to a rebound in German growth, but the sequential drop in the manufacturing PMIs, and the fact that the Q3 composite PMI is now lower relative to Q2 has increased risks to the downside." All of this puts increasing amounts a of pressure on the European Central Bank to ease monetary policy further in an effort to stimulate growth and stoke inflation. Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
MarkitNew manufacturing reports out of the eurozone suggest the economy isn't picking up significantly from the zero-growth experienced in Q2. The preliminary eurozone composite purchasing managers index (PMI) tumbled to 52.8 in August from 53.8 in July. While any reading above 50 signals growth, a decline number signals deceleration. Economists were forecasting 53.4 for the month. "With the PMI Output Index slipping slightly to 52.8, the region remains on course to register growth of only around 0.3%-0.4% in the third quarter, a level that is unlikely to stimulate any real turnaround in the labour market," wrote Markit's Rob Dobson. "Even before rising geopolitical headwinds began to buffet the economy, the double-digit unemployment rate prevailing in the eurozone was already excessively high. Signs are that the modest job creation of recent months has stalled in August." During the three months ending July, GDP registered 0.0% growth. And hopes for a recovery are quickly fading. "The PMI surveys for the euro area suggest that the economy may be stagnating again in the third quarter," wrote Bloomberg economists David Powell and Niraj Shah. "They also continue to point to weak inflationary pressures." The services sub-index fell to 53.8 from 54.2, and the manufacturing sub-index fell to 50.8 from 51.8. "The the real story is the ongoing relative weakness in the industrial sector," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. "This rather worrying trend is driven mainly by the slump in France, but the manufacturing sector is also relatively weak in Germany indicating a wide divergence between these two industries in Europe. The services sector accounts for the largest share of the economy, but movements in the manufacturing sector tends to have a better correlation with movements in GDP." Germany's manufacturing PMI fell to 52.0 in August from 52.4. France's fell to 46.5 from 47.8. "Our bet is that a big part of the recent indication that the headline eurozone PMI is overestimating growth is probably due to this divergence," Vistesen said. "We expect Q3 GDP to be better than the poor 0.0% quarter-on-quarter due to a rebound in German growth, but the sequential drop in the manufacturing PMIs, and the fact that the Q3 composite PMI is now lower relative to Q2 has increased risks to the downside." All of this puts increasing amounts a of pressure on the European Central Bank to ease monetary policy further in an effort to stimulate growth and stoke inflation. Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA price sign at a Dollar General store in Arvada, Colorado(Reuters) - Dollar General Corp &lt;dg.n&gt; questioned whether Family Dollar Stores Inc &lt;fdo.n&gt; Chief Executive Howard Levine was being driven by self-interest in his support of a proposed takeover of his company by Dollar Tree Inc &lt;dltr.o&gt;. Dollar General, which has made its own offer to buy Family Dollar, also alleged it had been led astray by Levine in talks on a potential buyout, notably during a meeting on June 19. "At no time during this meeting did Mr. Levine indicate that there was a process, that there was any urgency to act or that there were discussions with another potential buyer," said Dollar General Chief Executive Rick Dreiling in a letter to Family Dollar's board on Wednesday. "Had we left the meeting with the belief that a sale of Family Dollar was imminent, we assure you that our course of action would have been different." Dollar General offered to buy Family Dollar Stores for $8.95 billion on Monday, trumping the agreed deal with Dollar Tree that was announced on July 28. Levine will be the chief executive of the combined Family Dollar-Dollar Tree. He would lose his job to Dreiling if the deal with Dollar General goes through. Dollar General said its offer was better for Family Dollar's shareholders than the deal offered by Dollar Tree, "although perhaps not for Mr. Levine personally." Dollar stores are popular with low- and middle-income U.S. consumers in a weak economy but are facing increasing competition from big-box retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc &lt;wmt.n&gt;, putting pressure on them to merge. The U.S. market for dollar stores grew 45.7 percent to $48.2 billion between 2008 and 2013 and is expected to grow 18 percent in the next five years, according to Euromonitor International. Billionaire investor Carl Icahn has also questioned whether Levine's future role at Dollar Tree could have influenced the decision to go ahead with the Dollar Tree deal. Icahn, who took a 9.4 percent stake in Family Dollar in June, has pushed the company to sell itself to Dollar General. Family Dollar said on Monday it was reviewing Dollar General's offer, but had not changed its recommendation in support of a merger with Dollar Tree. (Reporting by Supriya Kurane and Ramkumar Iyer in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier and Ted Kerr) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersChina's President Xi Jinping waves to the media after arriving in Venezuela at Simon Bolivar airport in CaracasHONG KONG (Reuters) - Senior executives of China's state-owned enterprises (SOEs) face pay cuts of up to 50 percent under a reform plan approved by President Xi Jinping, the South China Morning Post reported on Thursday, citing sources. China needed to speed up reforms targeting the pay of top executives at state businesses, the newspaper quoted Xi as saying at a meeting on Monday. The Post's sources said the salary cuts were aimed at executives at major SOEs, in particular those in finance and banking, and would be followed by gradual changes in their job responsibilities. Senior government-appointed executives were likely join the board of directors, while day-to-day operations would be handled by senior managers hired from outside at salaries in line with international standards, the newspaper said. The reforms are aimed at addressing public discontent over the ambiguous status of top SOE executives, some of whom get perks and privileges and are also paid like western business executives, earning more than their fellow officials, it added. China must improve income distribution at state companies and ensure executives are not overpaid, among other things, President Xi was quoted by Xinhua as saying on Monday. Chinese state firms - which control sectors regarded to be of vital national interest - are often criticized for being inefficient and not handing over their profits to the nation despite being generously subsidized by the state. (Reporting by Donny Kwok; Editing by Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man cleans a new Toyota COROLLA car at Auto China 2014 in BeijingSHANGHAI (Reuters) - Toyota Motor Corp &lt;7203.T&gt; said on Thursday that it would cut prices of auto parts for its luxury Lexus models in China, following similar moves by its German rivals, in response to heightened regulatory scrutiny over anti-trust issues. Prices on about 15,000 parts will be reduced by an average 26 percent from next month, according to a statement posted on the Lexus website in China. "In response to the NDRC's concerns over monopoly practices in the industry, Lexus China will cut prices of spare parts in China starting from Sept. 1," it said, referring to the National Development and Reform Commission, the country's price regulator. "The company will ensure full compliance with the Chinese law, improve management behavior ... protect interests and rights of customers and contribute to the China auto industry," the statement added. BMW &lt;bmwg.de&gt;, Volkswagen AG's Audi &lt;vowg_p.de&gt; and Mercedes-Benz have already announced price cuts on auto spare parts in China, in an effort to appease regulators which have accused some of them of anti-competitive behavior. An array of industries, from milk powder makers to electronics firms, has come under the Chinese regulatory spotlight in recent years as the government intensifies its efforts to make foreign companies comply with 2008 anti-monopoly legislation. Legal experts, however, point out that the authorities appear to have wielded the law against more foreign multinationals than local companies. Officials say the law is applied to both domestic and foreign firms, with the aim of protecting consumers. The official Xinhua news agency reported earlier this month that Mercedes-Benz has been found guilty of manipulating prices for after-sales services in China. The NDRC also said it would punish Audi and Fiat SpA's &lt;fia.mi&gt; Chrysler for monopoly practices. Executives at Toyota told Reuters earlier in the month that the Chinese government is taking an "initial" look into the auto parts policies of its Lexus brand. Toyota's move comes a day after China fined 12 Japanese auto parts makers a record 1.2 billion yuan ($201 million) for manipulating prices. [ID:nL4N0QQ1CC] China's auto sector, which is the world's largest and dominated by foreign brands, has been under particular scrutiny amid accusations by state media that global car and parts makers are overcharging customers.   (1 US dollar = 6.1528 Chinese yuan)   (Reporting by Kazunori Takada and Shanghai newsroom; Editing by Ryan Woo) FREE AppDownload
Spencer Platt / Getty ImagesNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. regulators are sending some of the biggest global banks verbal warnings as they crack down on the firms' poor grasp of their own weaknesses, and push for rapid improvements in risk assessment, according to two sources familiar with the matter. The firms who received the warnings are among the largest banks in the world, but the sources declined to name individual firms because the enforcement actions are not public. Given the regular contact between supervisors and bank officials, the warnings could have come in meetings, phone calls, or letters. Banks are responding to the stepped-up pressure by hiring people with experience in data governance and analytics. One of the sources said recruitment calls have spiked in the last 18 months as regulators have issued more non-public enforcement actions. The world's largest banks have only grown bigger since the 2007-2009 financial crisis, and now contain even more separate entities involved in a dizzying web of credit obligations and trading positions. Banks, hobbled by what regulators believe is poor risk-management data, are struggling to get a handle on the full scope of their trading activities and asset quality. The result is that six years after the financial crisis, regulators and the industry they oversee cannot confidently assess big-picture threats to the U.S. financial system. And what was once viewed as an issue for data geeks has now been elevated to a safety-and-soundness concern that could eventually lead to restrictions on bonuses, dividends and share repurchases. "The information that external investors and supervisors have about these firms is essentially hostage to the quality of the data management within these firms," said Lewis Alexander, who between 2010-2011 helped lead the U.S. Treasury's effort to set up the Office of Financial Research, or OFR. Alexander is now U.S. chief economist at Nomura and also chairs the OFR's advisory committee. Regulators have been taking a two-pronged approach. Publicly, officials including Federal Reserve Governor Daniel Tarullo and Comptroller of the Currency Thomas Curry have issued warnings that banks with more than $50 billion in assets need to fix shoddy infrastructure that prevents them from identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling risk. Curry in particular has hammered at this theme, especially after JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co's &lt;jpm.n&gt; risk models in 2012 failed to capture the dangers of its "London Whale" derivatives trades that led to a $6.2 billion loss. And privately, regulators have been issuing enforcement actions in recent months. A senior bank supervisor said in an interview that these warnings a part of a "heightened expectations" program in which U.S. regulators have clamped down on the largest U.S. banks and foreign bank units with tougher risk management rules. For example, the New York Fed sent a letter to Deutsche Bank &lt;dbkgn.de&gt; in December that criticized the U.S. divisions of Germany's largest bank for producing financial reports that were "low quality, inaccurate and unreliable," said a source familiar with the letter. These private enforcement actions appear to build on some weaknesses that were made public as part of the Fed's annual stress tests of the largest banks. Bank of America &lt;bac.n&gt; in April was forced to resubmit a capital plan, and had to suspend planned increases in shareholder pay-outs, after it had incorrectly reported data used to calculate capital ratios to the Fed. A plan by Citigroup &lt;c.n&gt; was rejected altogether, with the Fed saying the bank's internal examination process did not sufficiently consider how its sprawling business across the world would weather a hypothetical crisis scenario.  The increased risk scrutiny from U.S. regulators is playing out on the international stage as well. The Basel Committee of bank regulators in December said only one-third of the world's 30 largest banks would have a sufficient grip on their data by 2016. Another third would not be ready by the deadline, while the remainder said they would be ready, but their national regulators were skeptical. And in January, a report by the Senior Supervisors Group, which reports to the G20, also issued a warning about data, saying regulators should prioritize this issue and make clear to their firms it was paramount that they were able to spot risk on their books at all times. Stacy Coleman, who headed the New York Fed's bank operational risk group until last year, said regulators have been frustrated that firms haven't made more progress in quickly compiling their credit exposures, in some cases taking several days. "The process wasn't very automated," said Coleman, former member of a Basel task force on systemically important banks, who is now at advisory firm Promontory Financial Group. "Even today I think there is a lot more manual processing required to compile the information than supervisors want there to be." Part of the problem is the sheer number of legal entities contained in large banks. Another is the lack of a universal language to describe the highly-specialized securities and many transactions the firms have employed, obscuring any bird's-eye view of how vulnerable the world remains to another crisis. A paper by the Basel committee of banking supervisors in December also seemed to show "growing frustration" from regulators who want to push hard now to get results, said David Schraa, regulatory counsel at the Institute of International Finance. "That's probably not an altogether bad thing, to push banks when budgets are constrained," he said, "provided the regulators are realistic about the need to balance all the other demands on IT and data-development resources." (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer in New York and Douwe Miedema in Washington; Editing by Karey Van Hall and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
