OppenheimerWe're back at all-time highs.  Despite a jobs report on Friday that disappointed, the S&amp;P 500 closed at a fresh all-time high of 2,007. In his investment strategy update for September, John Stoltzfus, chief market strategist at Oppenheimer, sees a chance for stocks to run higher still. "In the near term we expect that investors could just as easily bid stocks somewhat higher as they seek a catalyst for some profit taking. So long as tensions in the Middle East, Ukraine, and elsewhere around the globe remain on the front burner, a certain unquantifiable degree of uncertainty is likely to remain an overhang to market performance," Stoltzfus writes. Overall, Stoltzfus still reiterates his call for the S&amp;P 500 to finish the year at 2,014, with volatility likely persisting, "as both the bond and stock markets practice price discovery in anticipation of adjustments that could lie ahead in Fed policy and interest rates as the world turns and the economic expansion moves forward." Thanks to Oppenheimer &amp; Co. for giving us permission to run the presentation. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsDeaths of Rozier and Romain.Inventions have been boosting economic growth and productivity since the dawn of man. Unsurprisingly, it is the inventor who is often the early tester of those inventions. And some of those inventions pose deadly risks. With the help of Wikipedia, we've compiled a short list of brilliant engineers, scientists, and old-fashioned daredevils who fell victim to their own ideas. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Philippe Wojazer Far-right, anti-eurozone leader Marine Le-Pen would win the French Presidency if the election were held today. The big news at the moment is in the UK, where it looks like there's a real chance that Scotland might vote to leave Great Britain in a referendum that's coming up on Sept. 18. Up until very recently, the conventional wisdom was that it would be a fairly close vote, but that really the pro-independence campaign had very little shot. Now people are treating it more like a coin flip. But you shouldn't let the possible breakup of the Sterling-zone distract you from the mess elsewhere. In France, a new poll shows that Marine Le Pen is the current favorite in the 2017 Presidential elections. 2017 is a long time from now, but for those who don't know, Le Pen is the head of France's ultra-right National Front party, which was founded by her anti-Semitic, Holocaust-denying father Jean-Marie Le Pen. Marine is not as extreme as her father, but she's sharply anti-eurozone and holds other right-wing views. Meanwhile in Germany, the anti-eurozone party AfD (Alternative For Deutschland) won a shocking 10% of the vote in the Eastern German state of Saxony. It became the first anti-eurozone party to win a seat in a regional parliament, according to the BBC. All of this comes, of course, amid dismal economic numbers pretty much everywhere in Europe, which is a result of austerity, a broken monetary system, and a flat-footed European Central Bank (ECB). Last week European ECB President Mario Draghi unveiled new measures to revive the eurozone. Hopefully they're effective. In the meantime, it appears Europe is working against some strong centrifugal forces.    FREE AppDownload
FlickrFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. There Are New Twists To The The Old 'Active' Versus 'Passive' Debate (CFA Institute) "The growing popularity of passive equity investing seems to be an unstoppable feature of the evolving investment industry," proclaims Mark Harrison, CFA, director of publications at CFA Institute. In fact, "recent analysis by Morningstar, aggregating data on mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs), suggests passive investing is now the default choice for American investors, attracting an astonishing 68% of the past 12 months of investor inflows." However, there's a more recent wrinkle in the long running debate. "Somewhere between active and passive management is the increasingly popular factor approach, which offers investors the chance to isolate various return drivers, or “factors,” to achieve more transparent and better returns at lower costs," writes Harrison. "his is an approach that has been already embraced by the fund indexing and ETF industry, where several factor-based products are available." Millennials' Spending Habits Could Be Bad News For Big Banks (The Atlantic Business) Millennials are "spending money differently than previous generations," writes Nancy Cook. They "prefer to throw cash at new experiences and adventures and to reward socially responsible companies that they can connect with and that they deem authentic."  According to Cook, "it's easiest to see this change in the food industry, where millennials are helping to disrupt the landscape of casual restaurants and boosting the earnings of chains such as Chipotle or Panera." It may be even worse for big banks. "A three-year research study of more than 10,000 millennials found that a good handful of the least-liked brands were big financial institutions such as Bank of America and Citigroup," explains Cook. "Leading the authors to name the financial industry as one of the greatest areas for potential disruption by millennials." Here's Are The Best Ways To Increase Your Wealth (AdviceIQ) "As the old adage says, It takes money to make money. You don’t have to be wealthy to invest, but you have to invest to be wealthier," writes Lewis Walker, CFP,  president of Walker Capital Management LLC. Unfortunately, "many Americans are losing the asset accumulation battle. The inflation-adjusted net worth of the median household declined 36% over 10 years, according to a New York Times article, citing a study by the Russell Sage Foundation." Fortunately, all hope is not lost. There are still various forms of wealth accrual available to Americans ranging from stocks to real estate that can net great results. However, as imporant as accruing wealth is, protecting it is just as important, cautions Walker. "A vital component to wealth building is protecting it. Prudent insurance protection shields you and those you love from the vagaries of life, including accidents and property damage, injury and disability, premature death, lawsuits, and health-care costs." The European Central Bank's Latest Moves May Not Be Enough To Restore Confidence (Columbia Management) "In typical fashion, last week’s European Central Bank (ECB) announcements found a way to bury the lede," writes Zach Pandl, portfolio manager and strategist at Columbia Management. "The deposit rate cut to -20 basis points from -10 basis points was characterized as a technical adjustment, and the asset purchase program, while important, lacked a specific quantitative target—forcing investors to infer a rough figure from Mario Draghi’s comments in the press conference."   Pandl adds, "the steps taken by the ECB were critical for the outlook because they revealed something about the central bank’s reaction function—that policymakers will deploy unconventional tools to prevent inflation expectations from falling too far." The Alternative Reality Of The Endowment Model (Institutional Investor) "The endowment investment model, which is widespread among university, is often flagged as the best-in-class framework for long-term investors, " proclaims Ashby Monk, Ph.D., executive director of the Global Projects Center at Stanford University and a senior research associate at the University of Oxford.  This is an approach to institutional investment that is almost entirely outsourced and seeks to generate high returns through an aggressive orientation toward private equity and other alternative assets," writes Monk. Although still popular, Monk believes, "some institutional investors now see it as being at odds with long-term investing and perhaps even damaging to the long-term investment challenge." FREE AppDownload
Ollie Atkins, White House photographer, via Wikimedia CommonsRichard Nixon gives his "victory" sign in Philadelphia in July 1968.The S&amp;P 500 is one trading day without a 0.5% move away from its longest such streak since 1969.  Jonathan Krinsky at MKM Partners alerted us to the S&amp;P's current 14-day streak without a move larger than 0.5%, the longest such streak since 1995. To find a streak longer than 15 days, you have to go back to February 1969, when there were 20 consecutive days with no closes greater than 0.5%.  In February 1969, Richard Nixon was president. Krinsky notes that four of the five longest streaks without a 0.5% move since 1980 were broken with up days, while the 1969 streak was broken by a 1.13% down day, followed by five more down days. This is the second major streak the S&amp;P 500 has had this year, as earlier this year the benchmark index went 62 days without a move larger than 1% before falling 1.1% on July 17 after Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 was shot down over Ukraine.  Last week, Richard Nixon was in the news after a bizarre slip up in loan documents forced Nu Skin to confirm that the deceased former president is not a banker at JPMorgan.  On Tuesday, Nixon may again be in the financial news, except this time, for something less strange.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn employee sits next to a logo of Alibaba during a media tour organised by government officials at the company's headquarters on the outskirts of HangzhouBOSTON (Reuters) - The blockbuster initial public offering of Alibaba Group Holding Ltd  is expected to price on Sept. 18th, Fidelity Investments has told brokerage clients. Boston-based Fidelity, best known for its stable of mutual funds and brokerage, listed the expected pricing date on its website.   (Reporting By Tim McLaughlin) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike SegarGirls make a selection from the Cupcake ATM at Sprinkles Cupcake Bakery at New York's Upper East Side.Many consumers don't think twice when they swipe for a morning coffee with their trusty credit card.  But a recent Bankrate survey reveals that millennials are increasingly forgoing plastic. Almost two-thirds of millennials — a "whopping" 63% — don't own a single credit card. Only 23% own one credit card, and 6% own two. Contrastingly, 65% of adults over the age of 30 own at least one. From a short term perspective, millennials might be making the smart decision by steering clear of credit cards. Bankrate's survey "found that millennials who do have credit cards aren't as good at paying down their bills as other demographic groups." Only 40% of millennials "pay off their balances in full each month", while 53% of those 30 and over do. However, forgoing credit cards could have negative implications in the long run because credit cards are one of the best ways for building a good credit score. And a good credit score is imperative for getting a good price on things like insurance. It's also extremely difficult to secure financing for homes and cars if your credit score is low or worse, non-existent. As a result, millennials who aren't using credit cards —even if they're just trying to save money or control spending — end up having a hard time getting loans because they haven't built up enough credit to qualify. Plus the survey adds that "according to Experian, the average VantageScore for millennials is 628, which lenders largely consider subprime." As a comparison, Baby Boomers have an average Vantage Score of 700, and Generation Xers have 653. Millennials' credit card aversion is attributed to all the usual financial worries of the past five years. They grew up during the Great Recession, and now they're facing "bloated" student loans. "'It's not so much (that millennials are) anti-credit card, but it's more the risk of debt' that they fear," Eric Lindeen, director of marketing at Zoot Enterprises, told Bankrate. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsGeneral Mills is buying organic food company Annie's for $820 million, or $46 per share. This price represents a 51% premium to Annie's 30-day average share price as of Sept. 5. In after hours trade on Monday, shares of Annie's were up as much as 37% to about $46 per share. Here's the full announcement from the companies: BERKELEY, Calif., Sept. 8, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Annie's Inc. (BNNY) ("Annie's"), a leading natural and organic food company, announced today a definitive agreement to be acquired by General Mills, Inc. (GIS) ("General Mills") for $46.00 per share in cash, for a total transaction value of approximately $820 million. This acquisition will enable Annie's to enter a new phase of growth and success while maximizing value for stockholders. The transaction consideration represents a 51% premium over Annie's 30-day average closing price of $30.47 as of September 5, 2014. Annie's will continue to be headquartered in Berkeley, California. "We are excited about this strategic combination, which will enable Annie's to expand the reach and breadth of our high quality, great tasting organic and natural products, provide new opportunities for our employees, realize greater efficiencies in our operations, and maximize value for our stockholders," said John Foraker, Chief Executive Officer of Annie's. "Powerful consumer shifts toward products with simple, organic and natural ingredients from companies that share consumers' core values show no signs of letting up. Partnering with a company of General Mills' scale and resources will strengthen our position at the forefront of this trend, enabling us to more rapidly and efficiently expand into new channels and product lines in a rapidly evolving industry environment. "Annie's will remain dedicated to our mission: to cultivate a healthier and happier world by spreading goodness through nourishing foods, honest words and conduct that is considerate and forever kind to the planet. Authentic roots, great tasting products, high quality organic and natural ingredients, and sustainable business practices will continue to be the cornerstones of the Annie's brand," concluded Foraker. Molly Ashby, Annie's Chairman of the Board of Directors, stated, "This transaction is a testament to the great team at Annie's. Together, they have built a highly successful company around the authentic, mission-driven concept that Annie Withey originated 25 years ago. Annie's is a pioneer of the new generation of company that does well by doing good, generating great value for all stakeholders. This is strategically the right time to pursue this combination because it brings operational, sourcing and distribution capabilities that enable Annie's to build on its leadership position in the natural and organic market." The Annie's Board of Directors has unanimously recommended that Annie's stockholders accept the General Mills offer. General Mills will launch a tender offer within ten business days to purchase all outstanding shares of Annie's. General Mills' offer will be subject to the tender of a majority of Annie's shares and to certain other customary closing conditions including regulatory approval. The transaction is expected to close later in calendar 2014. Annie's financial advisor for the transaction is J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and its legal advisor is Proskauer Rose LLP. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA closeup of an electronic payment station at a Home Depot store in Daly City(Reuters) - Home improvement retailer Home Depot on Monday confirmed its payment systems were breached, potentially impacting customers using payment cards at its U.S. and Canadian stores. While the full scope of the breach was yet to be determined, there was no evidence that debit PIN numbers were compromised, Home Depot said in a statement. There was no evidence that the breach had impacted stores in Mexico or customers who shopped on its website, the company said. Home Depot said the investigation is focused from April onwards. The company has been in contact with the U.S. Secret Service about an alleged major breach of customer and credit card data that came to light last week, Reuters reported last week.  (Reporting by Shailaja Sharma in Bangalore; Editing by Savio D'Souza) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Russell Cheyne Stunning developments in recent weeks have made Scottish independence — which is set for a Sept. 18 vote — a very real possibility. The Scots will vote Thursday on whether they will seek independence from England, Wales, and Northern Ireland. New polls showing a recent shift in public opinion has suddenly made independence much more plausible.  And if Scotland does vote for independence, it could be the start of a domino effect for similar situations throughout Europe, analysts say.  Other areas have been seeking to hold independence referendums — Spain, for example, is worried that Scotland's situation could embolden separatists in the Catalonia region, though a  tentatively scheduled referendum set for Nov. 9 in Catalonia has been ruled unconstitutional by Spanish courts. Geopolitical expert Ian Bremmer, the president of Eurasia Group, said Monday he doesn't expect Scots to end up voting for independence. But if they pull off a shocker, there could be many reverberating effects from the vote — one being that other separatist-fueled areas will be encouraged. "If it does happen, this European ‘contagion’ risk that you mention is very real," Bremmer, told Business Insider on Monday.  "Other countries will look very closely at how European institutions and member states would manage it. In Spain, Prime Minister Rajoy and the Constitutional Court have both ruled out a similar referendum for Catalonia. But a ‘yes’ in Scotland would make for a much noisier situation in Spain. After a ‘yes’ vote, Scotland would effectively become the pioneer, carving a path forward that Catalonia would try and follow." In addition to Catalonia, the Basque region of Spain also is home to a budding legion of separatists who want to vote for independence. Other, less mature independence movements that could grow include the Dutch-speaking Flanders region of Belgium, as well as Venice and other areas in northern Italy.  A "yes" vote in Scotland would likely lead to a tenuous, uncertain situation as it tries to regain membership into the European Union by the time it would become fully independent in March 2016. To get back into the EU would require a unanimous vote by current members, which may be impossible as countries like Spain and Belgium would want to use the situation as a deterrent to separatist movements in their own countries. "That would be incredibly messy, precisely because countries like Spain and Belgium would have an incentive to bar Scottish membership given their own situations," Bremmer said.  "We saw the same thing when Greece was on the ropes a few years ago: if Athens had moved for the Eurozone exit, members had strong incentives to make that a scorched path, an economically violent process that would keep others from following in Greece’s footsteps. Some EU members would surely make an example out of Scotland." Jim Edwards / BI Scottish independence would also lead to a host of other questions: Would it be able to still use the British pound, which fell to its lowest level in 10 months on news of the polls? Would it be able to stay a member of NATO?  All of those questions would have to be sorted out. But the biggest effect of Scottish independence, Bremmer said, could be the ultimate change of Britain's political landscape. Currently, 40 of Scotland's 59 members parliament come from the Labour party compared to just one from the conservative-leaning Tories.  As Bremmer explained, Scottish independence would "tilt the entire U.K. political spectrum to the right." That would boost the odds of a conservative majority winning in 2015.  Ultimately, he said, it could be a "game-changer" for the chances of a referendum on an "in-or-out" referendum on the U.K.'s place in the E.U. Prime Minister David Cameron has proposed a referendum in 2017 if the conservative party wins an outright majority next year. "If Scotland votes ‘yes,’ down the road would come the ultimate irony," Bremmer said. "The U.K. would be more likely to pull out of the E.U., while Scotland clamors to get in." FREE AppDownload
Most businesses aren't making money when they first open their doors. Indeed, many publicly-traded companies are losing money when they first hit the stock market. That's actually why many come to the stock market. They IPO to raise investment capital while offering prospective investors the opportunity to get a piece of a company before it starts minting money. These companies include small intenet startups and biotech firms. Let's not forget about the many companies that are losing money because business stinks. In parts of the world where economic activity is contracting, you'll easily find banks, homebuilders, and commodities suppliers booking losses. But the number of money-losing public companies may surprise you. Societe Generale's Andrew Lapthorne offered this interesting chart tracking the percentage of loss making companies in the U.S., the eurozone, and Japan. "What is interesting is that not only have loss making companies become more common in the eurozone and US, but how increasingly rare they have become in Japan," Lapthorne wrote. "In addition, while US loss makers tend to come from speculative growth sectors, in the Eurozone, after biotech, the loss makers are mostly in banks, construction and real estate." Societe Generale FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/ Louis LanzanoFormer SAC portfolio manager Mathew Martoma was sentenced to nine years in federal prison for insider trading, CNBC's Kate Kelly reports. He also has to forfeit $9.4 million. In February, Martoma was found guilty on three counts —two securities fraud and one conspiracy. In November 2012, Martoma — who worked at SAC subsidiary CR Intrinsic Investors — was charged in what the DOJ says was "the most lucrative" insider trading scheme in history. Prosecutors said that Martoma used negative confidential drug trial info in pharmaceutical companies Elan Corporation and Wyeth between summer 2006 and mid-July 2008. The fund was then able to exit those positions and short those stocks avoiding losses of $276 million.  In November 2013, SAC, which is run by Steve Cohen, pleaded guilty to criminal insider trading charges and agreed to pay a $1.8 billion fine. SAC is now called Point72 Asset Management. It operates as a so-called "family office" fund and doesn't manage outside capital.  FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/ Louis LanzanoFormer SAC portfolio manager Mathew Martoma was sentenced to nine years in federal prison for insider trading, CNBC's Kate Kelly reports. He also has to forfeit $9.4 million. In February, Martoma was found guilty on three counts —two securities fraud and one conspiracy. In November 2012, Martoma — who worked at SAC subsidiary CR Intrinsic Investors — was charged in what the DOJ says was "the most lucrative" insider trading scheme in history. Prosecutors said that Martoma used negative confidential drug trial info in pharmaceutical companies Elan Corporation and Wyeth between summer 2006 and mid-July 2008. The fund was then able to exit those positions and short those stocks avoiding losses of $276 million.  In November 2013, SAC, which is run by Steve Cohen, pleaded guilty to criminal insider trading charges and agreed to pay a $1.8 billion fine. SAC is now called Point72 Asset Management. It operates as a so-called "family office" fund and doesn't manage outside capital.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerPeople release paper lanterns ahead of the Mid-Autumn Festival in Yichun, Jiangxi province, September 7, 2014. People celebrate the Chinese Mid-Autumn Festival, also known as Moon Festival, on the 15th day of the eighth month in the Chinese lunar calendar, which falls on September 8 this year. Stocks were little changed on Monday in a session that saw little in the way of economic data, with the just the U.S. consumer credit report in the afternoon showing that credit balances expanded by more than economists expected. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Monday: 1. The latest report on consumer credit showed credit balances grew by $26 billion in July, more than the $17.35 billion was expected by economists. Following the report, Jesse Hurwitz at Barclays said, "The nonrevolving component, which we view as largely driven by increases in student loan debt in recent years, posted the largest monthly increase since July 2011.  While both revolving and nonrevolving credit growth have accelerated in recent months, we continue to look for nonrevolving credit to contribute the majority of overall gains." 2. Shares of Hertz finished Monday's session little changed after the company announced that its CEO, Mark Frissora, would resign for personal reasons. Frissora's resignation comes after a tough year for the rental car company, which announced on August 20 that it would review its financial results from 2011 through 2014, in addition to withdrawing its fiscal 2014 guidance and saying that its results would be "well below" previous expectations. 3. Analysts at Goldman Sachs wrote in a note to clients that in the wake of recent high-profile data breaches, internet security companies including FireEye, LifeLock, and Palo Alto Networks could be set to benefit from an increased focus on security by companies. Goldman's Matthew Niknam and Jamison Manwaring wrote that, "while difficult to quantify the direct impact of each event and how that may drive incremental revenue for security companies, we nonetheless expect the prevalence/prominence of breaches to benefit our stocks and support valuation, especially as this remains a top board-level issue." 4. Apple is expected to announce a new iPhone at an event on Tuesday, and ahead of this announcement, BI's Jay Yarow noted that historically, shares of Apple decline on the day of iPhone announcements then typically rise until the phone goes on sale, and then decline on the day sales begin.  5. Deutsche Bank's David Bianco, who has been one of the biggest bears on Wall Street this year, flipped to being bullish, and raised his year-end S&amp;P 500 target to 2,050 from a previous expectation of 1,850.  6. A blog post from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco on Monday noted the divergence between current FOMC expectations for the future path of interest rates and what the market expects. The Fed's Jen Christensen and James Kwan noted that, "the public might not give enough weight to how dependent the central bank’s guidance is on both current and incoming data. Thus, the public could underestimate the conditionality and uncertainty of interest rate projections." 7. Alibaba kicked off its IPO roadshow on Monday, and released a series of videos outlining its pitch to investors. BI's Elena Holodny broke down the video into a slide deck that gives a broad overview of what Alibaba does, and gives you a sense of the company's massive scale.  Don't Miss: A Wall Street Strategist Put Together An Awesome Presentation On Everything Going On In The Markets And The Economy Now » FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesConsumer credit balances expanded by $26.0 billion in July. This was much bigger than the $17.35 billion expected by economists. Non-revolving debt, which includes auto loans and student loans, jumped by $20.6 billion. This was the biggest monthly gain since July 2011. Revolving debt, which includes credit card balances, climbed by $5.4 billion. FREE AppDownload
The market and the FOMC have different visions for the future of interest rates. A paper from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco released on Monday by Jens Christensen and Simon Kwan, research economists at the SF Fed, notes this divergence.  The split is captured in these two charts highlighted by Christensen and Kwan: the first showing the FOMC's expectations for interest rates, the second showing the market's.  SF Fed SF FedNot only does the market expect lower interest rates over the long-term, but an additional observation is that market expectations are within a tighter range than the FOMC's, indicating that the public is less uncertain about the future path of interest rates than the Fed.  Christensen and Kwan pull their Fed expectations from the FOMC's latest summary of economic projections, which are merely expectations from FOMC participants, and not necessarily prescriptions for the future path of Fed policy.  However, the important split isn't just the expected interest rate, but the variability in how we get to these rates.  The key observation from Christensen and Kwan is that, "the public might not give enough weight to how dependent the central bank’s guidance is on both current and incoming data. Thus, the public could underestimate the conditionality and uncertainty of interest rate projections." It's been eight years since the Fed raised interest rates, and after the Fed finishes its quantitative easing program next month, the countdown will be on the first interest rate hike. And it's pretty clear that no one really knows what happens next. FREE AppDownload
elPadawan / FlickrTrump Entertainment plans to file for bankruptcy, according to Bloomberg. The holding company owns and operates two casinos in Atlantic City, New Jersey, Trump Plaza and the Trump Taj Mahal. Both hotel-casinos have been under considerable financial duress — so much so that company founder Donald Trump, who still owns 10% of the Trump Entertainment, has asked that his name be removed from both buildings. The casinos, he argued, have not lived up to the "high standards of quality and luxury" associated with the Trump brand. Of course, Trump is not alone in its struggles. All of Atlantic City is suffering from dismal casino revenue. Not even the massive Revel Casino — a $2.2 billion project meant to symbolize a new era for the city — could draw visitors back. It filed for bankruptcy earlier this year. This Bloomberg chart of monthly slot machine revenue in Atlantic City says pretty much everything you need to know about the situation. Why Atlantic City is doomed in one Bloomberg chart (a decade of monthly slot machine betting totals) pic.twitter.com/NnjaAGlwJd The situation has gotten so desperate that New Jersey Governor Chris Christie issued a directive allowing flailing casinos and race tracks to engage in sports betting on Monday. Also on Monday, Christie convened a special closed-door summit to address the casino closures. Since January roughly 8,000 casino workers have lost their jobs. FREE AppDownload
RetailRoadShow, AlibabaBy now, we've all heard that Alibaba — the Chinese e-commerce site that's quickly becoming a huge threat to Amazon.com — is planning to raise $21 billion in an IPO. But most of us don't really know that much about this e-commerce giant. Alibaba recently released a video of its roadshow presentation to give prospective investors all the facts and numbers about where the company stands right now, and where it's going. Business Insider watched the video, grabbed the key slides, and jotted down the key quotes. Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Russell CheyneScottish independence leader Alex Salmond is convincing voters that staying in Great Britain is just too risky. After this weekend's shock poll, which showed the pro-independence campaigners taking the lead in the Scottish referendum, the world is starting to take seriously that Scotland might leave Great Britain. Even still, betting markets think that NO will prevail, and that Scotland will stay. The conventional wisdom is that at the last second voters will feel like it's too much of a risk to vote YES, and that they'll just stick with the status quo. That tends to be the pattern with referendums. But professor Alan Renwick explains how Scotland could turn that historical pattern on its head. Basically, the pro-independence side is doing a good job of making it look like staying in Great Britain is risky. Scotland, which tends to be to the left of the political spectrum, is warning that leaders in London will cut healthcare spending if the status quo prevails. And they're also warning that the U.K. might itself leave the EU in the near future, an unpopular prospect in Scotland. Here's Renwick: Reversion point reversal relates to the fact that voters are generally risk-averse. The side of a referendum debate that can convince voters it can protect what voters most value about the status quo is likely to see its polling figures rise. In Scotland’s case, it seems pretty clear to an outside(-ish) observer that the uncertainties associated with independence are greater than those linked to staying in the UK. But Alex Salmond and other ‘Yes’ campaigners have been increasingly effective in arguing that, actually, independence is the best way to protect Scotland’s social model and its position as an open, friendly society within the European Union. Independence, says Salmond, will protect the NHS from the cutters and privatisers in Westminster. Independence, say pro-Yes businesspeople, will insulate Scotland from English isolationism in a future referendum on EU membership. Indeed, this tweet from the official Yes Scotland Twitter account shows the campaign's argument that under the status quo, cuts are coming, and that you better vote Yes if you want to keep your healthcare.  FREE AppDownload
CraigslistThe apartment.If you’re a “relatively young, hetero, professional male bachelor who grew up in America,” then we may have just found the apartment of your dreams.  First spotted by Gothamist, the ludicrous Craigslist listing (which has since been deleted) is for a three bedroom in Long Island City’s Arris Lofts. The “palace” is 2,000 square feet with two floors, a washer and dryer, enclosed garden area with koi pond, roof deck, gym, pool, and sauna. Though the amenities and room sound awesome, the two 30-something men who live there do not. “Do not respond to this ad unless you make, at minimum, six-figures a year,” the now-deleted listing reads. “You will not be able to afford to live here or maintain the lifestyle that is necessary to keep up with the rest of us." Those fresh out of college are not welcome either, along with anyone who can’t speak English, is passive aggressive, or is sensitive to “awesome music played at high decibel levels, the aroma of amazing gourmet cooking emanating through the house, lengthy intellectual debates with people who have an amazing sense of humor, or loud moans of sexual delight creeping out from the various bedrooms at any given hour of the day.” But don’t worry. They’re also accepting of ladies if you are “an extremely hot (at least a 9), lipstick lesbian with bi tendencies and an exhibitionist streak when you get hammered.” Charming. And while the listing is now gone, thankfully Gothamist took screenshots of the outrageous ad. Enjoy. Craigslist FREE AppDownload
Last week, fast-food workers around America went on strike for higher wages. While some say we can't afford the pay increase and that it would cause people to lose their jobs, Paul Krugman says in an interview with BI that there is actually not much risk of significantly higher wages hurting the workers. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Additional camera by Graham Flanagan and Alex Kuzoian. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Courtesy of Valentina Phillips-ZagorMillionaire hoarder Lewis David Zagor kept a cache of guns in his rent-stabilized apartment, his widow said. UPPER EAST SIDE — An eccentric investor who hoarded expensive clothes, exquisite silverware and pricey paperweights left behind $18 million when he died last year — but the documents detailing his fortune's whereabouts are buried under piles of paperwork and boxes in his locked-up pigsty rent-controlled pad, his widow and court records say. Lewis David Zagor, a towering 300-pound-plus Wall Street genius with a doctorate in business administration, made a killing putting his cash in stocks and mutual funds. The reams of dividend checks he received each quarter allowed him to go on shopping sprees at Saks Fifth Avenue and travel the globe, his family and friends said. Despite his wealth, Zagor chose to live in a cluttered two-bedroom rent-stabilized apartment on Park Avenue and East 96th Street, where he paid $1,640.85 a month. He lived there for more than 38 years. His third wife, Valentina Phillips-Zagor, was with him for the last 10 years of his life until his death at 77 on Dec. 5, 2013. Courtesy of Valentina Phillips-Zagor Courtesy of Valentina Phillips-ZagorLewis David Zagor and Valentina Phillips-Zagor were married for 10 years until his death in December 2013. Phillips-Zagor said her husband was a hoarder worth $18 million. “You have no idea the amount of wealth that is in the apartment,” Phillips-Zagor told DNAinfo New York. “The most important are the financial documents.” Phillips-Zagor, 68, said she has been locked out of the apartment since May when the building's management company, MSMC Residential Realty, changed the locks on the home because she owed rent. She said after her husband died, MSMC wanted to charge her the market rate for the apartment and she refused. She said she had already moved into another apartment on Fifth Avenue, but she was still in the process of cleaning out her husband's home, which was packed with debris, tchotchkes and boxes of clothes. Phillips-Zagor said when the locks were changed, she still hadn't sorted through her husband's home office, where he kept most of the information on his bank and brokerage accounts.  Zagor, who apparently has no living relatives other than his wife, also never made a will, complicating any resolution of his finances and their distribution. Last month, MSMC filed a petition in Manhattan Surrogate's Court, asking a judge to appoint a public administrator to oversee the administration of Zagor's estate so it could file a lawsuit against the estate in housing court to recoup back rent. MSMC claims in the court papers that Zagor's lease ended on April 30 and it was extended on a month-to-month basis to Phillips-Zagor, but she has not paid rent for the last few months and owes nearly $5,000.Courtesy of Valentina Phillips-ZagorValentina Phillips-Zagor holds gold glassware that she said was among the many expensive items her millionaire hoarder husband collected but never used.Courtesy of Valentina Phillips-Zagor Courtesy of Valentina Phillips-ZagorOn Aug. 26, Phillips-Zagor filed her own petition in the surrogate's court, claiming that her husband's estate was worth $18 million and she is the only beneficiary. To prove her husband's fortune, she showed a DNAinfo New York reporter some of Zagor's bank account statements that she managed to find. One account held more than $2 million as of this spring. Two other accounts each had several hundreds of thousands of dollars in them. She also showed monthly checks that Zagor continues to receive, totaling tens of thousands of dollars. Phillips-Zagor can't cash those checks or access her husband's accounts until the case is sorted out in surrogate's court. But she said she is in no rush because she currently lives comfortably in a Fifth Avenue apartment and has a studio apartment in Kensington, where she stores furniture and artwork. She said she prefers to have MSMC deal with the headache of sorting through her husband's mess. “I said, ‘You go to the court. You go to the apartment and go through the ocean of papers and you will file the petition to become the executor,” she said. Phillips-Zagor said that her husband was an only child whose father was a real estate investor and stock trader. Before he moved into his rent-stabilized pad, he lived directly across the street in an apartment with his parents. Zagor's quirky nature came from spending so much time alone, his wife said. When he moved into his Park Avenue apartment, Zagor drew the shades all the way down on the windows and never opened them again, she said. Zagor worked for a while as a programmer, but later made investing his own money his full-time job. While he was in some ways frugal with his cash, he also splurged to blow off steam, Phillips-Zagor said. "He liked to go on a shopping spree each time he was in a bad mood," she said. "He did not have family, he didn't have any moral support from anybody. The only moral support was a shopping spree." She said he spent so much that places like Saks and clothing boutiques would deliver his purchases in boxes. "He would put the boxes one on top of the other and never open them," Phillips-Zagor said. Zagor’s close friend Marvin Stiglitz, a retired electrical engineer, said Zagor also told him of his $18 million fortune. The two became friends in the 1960s doing a stint together on jury duty, where they passed the time crunching calculus problems. Stiglitz described his longtime pal as a financial whiz. He said Zagor encouraged him to take a stock market predicting course, but he credited his pal for any success he had investing. “I noticed whenever I did something against his judgment, I lost money,” Stiglitz said. Stiglitz said he would sometimes go to Zagor’s apartment to fix a light bulb or help him hang art. He described the apartment as a “big mess,” including one room where Zagor had “pandas and all kinds of little stuffed animals and anything else from any kind of party where he had been to.” "If he bought something, he would save that box in case he had to give it back. He had a lot of boxes," Sitglitz added. Zagor, who was in the Navy in his youth and earned high praise for his marksmanship, also had a cache of rifles and revolvers. Police officers had to remove them from the apartment after his death, Phillips-Zagor said. Zagor's wife has lived as colorful a life as him. She was born in the Ukraine and said she worked as a translator in the Soviet army and later ran a successful travel business. She also lived around the world, including, for a time, in Peru. To prove her own financial success, she showed a DNAinfo New York reporter her bank card and copy of an ATM receipt showing her checking account with more than $1 million in it. She said she and Zagor met through a mutual friend. At the time, they were both grieving the recent deaths of their spouses. She described Zagor as a “charming man” with a great sense of humor. The two married in 2003. She said she didn’t know how much money he had until after they wed. At a table in their apartment, Zagor would go over his accounts and teach her about the stock market. “I would sit at a chair, two hours a day, and listen to him lecture about his investments because he would say, ‘One day you will have to do it on your own,’” she said. She said her husband was cheap, always opting for the subway over a cab, even when he was nursing a bad knee. Sometimes they had rows over her simply asking for $10 to go to a museum, she said. Other times, he was extraordinarily generous, she said. “He had a weakness. If I asked for something obnoxiously expensive, he wouldn’t say no,” Phillips-Zagor said as she modeled a fur coat she claimed he bought her for $18,000. But Phillips-Zagor said she believes his scrimping may have ultimately done him in. Her husband, who suffered from diabetes, died of heart and kidney failure while being treated at Mount Sinai Hospital for an infection in his knee. She said while he was being treated there, she beseeched him to use his money to pay for a private room at the hospital, where she thought he would get even better care. He refused because his insurance covered the room he was sharing with another patient, she said. “He said, ‘I’m getting the best treatment for free. He loved it for free,” she said. “My husband died because he was cheap.”  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidSpecialist trader Jason Hardzewicz gives the price for Hertz rental car at the opening bell on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange August 20, 2014.(Reuters) - Mark Frissora has resigned as chief executive of Hertz Global Holdings Inc, citing personal reasons, as pressure from investors mounts following a series of accounting errors. Hertz's shares rose as much as 5 percent after the No. 2 U.S. car rental company said it had begun the search for a replacement. Several investors and analysts named Scott Thompson, former CEO of Dollar Thrifty, as a possible candidate. Brian MacDonald, CEO of Hertz's equipment rental business, which will soon be spun off, was named interim chief executive. Hertz has owned up to a string of accounting errors, originating in 2011, that will require it to restate or correct its financial results for the past three years. The company last month withdrew its full-year financial forecast. Disclosing an 8.5 percent stake in Hertz last month, activist investor Carl Icahn said he planned to quiz management over accounting issues. Private investment firm Fir Tree Partners Inc, which owned 3 percent of Hertz's stock at the end of the second quarter, has said Frissora had "completely lost credibility." "I'm sure he got the message that people don't want him," a different Hertz shareholder told Reuters. The investor declined to be identified, citing company policy. Frissora, 58, also stepped down as chairman. He was not available for comment. Frissora is credited for the shrewd acquisitions that helped Hertz to grow into a $12.7 billion company - more than two-and-a-half times its value when it listed in 2006, shortly after Frissora took the helm. "During Mark's tenure, Hertz has transformed from a single on-airport car rental brand to a world leading rental car company," said Linda Levinson, who was announced as independent non-executive chairwoman on Monday. Frissora presided over Hertz's buyout of Dollar Thrifty after a tussle with Avis Budget Group Inc &lt;car.o&gt;. He also ranked fifth on Business Travel News' list of the 25 most influential executives of 2012. But some analysts and investors have said Hertz had not been able to raise prices as much as it should have after swallowing up a major competitor. Some are calling for the man who led Dollar Thrifty at the time as a replacement for Frissora. "There has been a clamoring for Scott Thompson, who did a fabulous job in taking Dollar Thrifty from close to bankruptcy to an $87.50 per share buyout," said Michael Millman, managing member of independent securities research company Millman Research Associates. Hertz had first offered $2 per share. To Friday's close, Hertz's stock had fallen 0.6 percent this year compared with a 64 percent jump in the value of Avis, the third-largest U.S. car rental company. Privately held Enterprise Rent-A-Car is the largest player in the $24 billion market. Hertz's shares were up 1.7 percent at $28.95 in afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange on Monday.   (Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty, Feroze Jamal and Robin Paxton) FREE AppDownload
YouTubeRich Handler, Jefferies CEO  Jefferies CEO Rich Handler sent an open letter to his firm's senior-level bankers providing them with five ways to help make life better for the young analysts and associates, Dealbook reports. In the last year, Wall Street banks have been criticized for the brutal workload their young analysts tend to take on. Many firms responded by cutting back the long-hours and requiring analysts to take weekends off. Handler is taking it a step further and reminding his managing directors to appreciate and get to know their underlings.   "Between the work challenges and the personal obligations, it is very easy to forget, overlook, or take for granted our most precious and critical partners who enable the Jefferies world to keep revolving and our individual careers to continue to shine: our analysts and associates," Handler wrote. Here are Handlers five thoughts (via Dealbook):  1. It wasn't that long ago (or at least it doesn’t seem it) that we were the ones that were so eager to help, learn and get the job done for no personal gain, except for the good of the team. Remember what that felt like and personally thank every person that is helping you get your job done today. Yes, a simple acknowledgment and thank you feels good to the recipient and makes a big difference. 2. Everyone wants a mentor, but few work endlessly to find a “mentee.” Pick an associate or analyst to whom you feel some kinship or relationship, or in whom you see a special spark, or perhaps you just like as a person … and get involved in his or her career and personal development. Someone did it for you. Never forget that. It’s time to give back, and every one of us has a little spare time. 3. If you don’t respect the need for some type of normal life balance in the lives of our associates, analysts and support team, shame on you. Now we all know there are periods of time or circumstances that call for time and effort beyond the normal call of duty, but we are not a fraternity or sorority that hazes or takes advantage of people because of the way it was when we were cadets. Waiting until the last minute to hand out work, creating unnecessary projects or deadlines, or just being insensitive makes you a jerk. We do not have or want jerks at Jefferies. 4. Every analyst and associate needs real client contact, as often as possible and practical. If he or she is up all night or weekend on a pitch book, tell her or him to sprinkle some water on their face, straighten out the scarf or tie, and join the team at the meeting. By the way, the clients typically love it. 5. Make it personal. Get to know our young folks as our potential long-term partners. Take an interest in where they grew up and the school from which they recently graduated. Understand their career aspirations and goals. Learn about their families and friends. Nobody gets into Jefferies unless they are amongst the best and brightest and every last one of our associates and analysts is special. Quite frankly, we should all wonder if we could get ourselves into our firm today if we were competing heads up with all of them. They are our future and if we don’t all take a personal interest in each of them, what does that say about our future? Well said, sir. Well said.  FREE AppDownload
Salesforce.com has set aside $100 million to invest in mobile app startups through its Salesforce Ventures VC arm. While lots of tech companies have venture funds (from Google to SAP), Salesforce has to be one of the most active. Launched in 2009, Salesforce Ventures at first focused strictly on enterprise cloud companies, backing more than 100 enterprise cloud startups, including companies like Anaplan, Box, DocuSign, Dropbox, Evernote, GainSight, MuleSoft. MongoDB, and SurveyMonkey.  That vote of confidence certainly helped sow a healthy enterprise software-as-a-service cloud computing market, which generated $33.1 billion in 2013 and will more than double that to $76.1 billion by 2017, IDC says. And now it wants to do the same thing for enterprise mobile apps, which it calls the Internet of Customers. It calls this new fund the Salesforce1 Fund, named after its enterprise app-hosting service Salesforce1. The fund has already made three investments: Funding from Salesforce Ventures also means that a startup commits to CEO Marc Benioff's 1-1-1 model of philanthropy. That's when a company spends 1% of its time, 1% of its products, and 1% of its equity to charity. Benioff is a big proponent of tech companies giving back to their communities and not being perceived as greedy "Wolves of Wall Street" types. FREE AppDownload
YouTube/MileyCyrusVEVOAt the stock market's party, the dance floor is crowded but the night is still young. This is the message from Oppenheimer's chief investment strategist John Stoltzfus in a note to clients on Monday. The key passage from Stoltzfus: "Our read on this relatively recent development in the marketplace that has seen a rise in broadly more positive commentary in and around the markets about stocks is best for us taken in context of the primordial analogy of 'bull market as a party.' In such context, it seems to us that 'the dance floor is getting crowded but the night still appears relatively young.'" Stoltzfus notes that, overall, being "positive" on stocks has become "fashionable" of late, a development that has Stoltzfus a little bit nervous. "...[A]s contrarians, we can’t help but get a little nervous when it seems as if everybody is starting to 'move to the same side of the boat' that we’ve been on for some time now—and heretofore without 'crowds' of company," Stoltzfus writes.  But these are anecdotal concerns, and Stoltzfus still sees plenty of fundamental reasons for stocks to continue trading higher: Stoltzfus reiterated his 2014 price target for the S&amp;P 500 of 2,014.  You can get a full overview of the market from Stoltzfus in this presentation. FREE AppDownload
APKate Upton was among the celebrities that had photos leaked.It's been a tough couple weeks for internet security. Home Depot recently had a bunch of customer data stolen in a breach that could be larger than Target's. And then last week, reports said HealthCare.gov was hacked back in July, though no personal information was stolen. And of course, there was the massive leak of nude celebrity photos from Apple's iCloud servers.  In the wake of these high-profile data leaks, analysts at Goldman Sachs highlighted a couple companies that could be set to benefit from increased focus on data security.  Goldman says FireEye, Palo Alto Networks, and LifeLock are the top "breach beneficiary" stocks, with these high-profile leaks providing a tailwind to the entire internet security sector.  Goldman analysts Matthew Niknam and Jamison Manwaring write that, "while difficult to quantify the direct impact of each event and how that may drive incremental revenue for security companies, we nonetheless expect the prevalence/prominence of breaches to benefit our stocks and support valuation, especially as this remains a top board-level issue." And Goldman's not the only firm that likes these companies, as analysts at UBS on Monday upgraded shares of FireEye — which this spring saw shares take an absolute beating amid the sell-off in tech stocks — were upgraded to "Buy" from "Neutral" by analysts at UBS. Goldman noted that an estimated 822 million records were exposed via data breaches in 2013, more than three times the number exposed in 2012, and also included this handy list of recent high-profile data breaches.  Seems like a lot. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn exterior view of the Barclays Center is seen in Brooklyn, New YorkLONDON (Reuters) - Barclays  has cut 2,700 jobs in its investment bank this year as part of a plan unveiled in May to axe 7,000 positions over three years, the head of the business said on Monday. Tom King, chief executive of Barclays investment bank, also said at the Barclays Financial Services Conference there were tentative signs of a pick-up in trading activity after a slow July and august. "We are in a cyclically slower part of the year. For this quarter it's usually about September. It's very early days, but September seems to have the hallmarks of what could be a nice, attractive month, we're seeing a bit of volatility in the trading business and the issuance calendar is robust," King said.  (Reporting by Steve Slater; Editing by Anjuli Davies) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachOdds are you're likely to be make more in the stock market by tracking an index than by trying to beat that index. S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices just published its mid-year scorecard of S&amp;P indices versus active funds (SPIVA). Active funds are the funds that attempt to offer some sort of superior return relative to some benchmark. "According to the data, 59.78% of large-cap managers, 57.84% of mid-cap managers and 72.79% of small-cap managers underperformed their benchmarks," said Aye Soe, director of index research and design. This is for the 12-month period ending June 30, 2014. Fund managers have a knack for getting lucky over short-term periods. When you extend the performance period from 12-months to 5 years, the results are much uglier. "The past five years have been marked by the rare combination of a remarkable rebound in domestic equity markets and a low-volatility equity environment," Soe added. "This combination has proven to be difficult for domestic equity managers, as over 70% of them across all capitalization and style categories failed to deliver returns higher than their respective benchmarks." Below is a table from S&amp;P showing 18 categories of funds. For some categories, more than half of the funds seem to be able to pull-off better returns over short periods. But as you can see in the red box, there's no category in which more than 30% of the funds have beaten the index over a five year period. "There is nothing novel about the index versus active debate," said Soe. "It has been a contentious subject for decades, and there are a few strong believers on both sides, with the vast majority of investors falling somewhere in between." S&P Dow Jones Indices FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeBy Chris Vellacott LONDON (Reuters) - With returns on government bonds at rock-bottom prices, sovereign wealth funds are muscling into stock markets and other higher-yielding assets like real estate at a rate that private investors warn could destabilize the world economy. Since central banks cut interest rates to record lows in a bid to shore up flagging economic growth, world governments have had to look further afield to grow public pension money or central bank currency reserves. But the resulting tide of money is in danger of distorting markets, causing prices to reflect political priorities rather than financial reality, insiders say. It's also threatening to inflate the very price bubbles that central bank teams globally are working so hard to prevent, experts suggest. "There is quite clearly both an actual and a potential conflict of interest... There should be some sort of code of practice," said David Marsh, managing director at the Official Monetary and Financial Institutions Forum (OMFIF), which researches public financial institutions. Sovereign investors manage assets worth $29.1 trillion - equivalent to 40 percent of the global economy - which are held by 157 central banks, 156 public pension funds and 87 sovereign wealth funds, according to OMFIF. The money originates often from natural resource revenues after a commodities boom - as in the case of Norway, which runs the world's biggest sovereign fund thanks to its oil reserves. Alternatively sovereign wealth funds can reflect an accumulation of manufacturing export revenues, as is the case with China. Sovereign investors already feature prominently on the shareholder registers of many of the world's largest companies. Some of these stakes, such as Qatar's near 5 percent in Barclays, are a legacy of funds participating in shoring up beleaguered banks during the 2008-2009 financial crisis. Norway's $890 billion fund owns 1.3 percent of all global shares and aims to put more of its cash in assets other than bonds, such as equities, infrastructure and real estate, its chief told Reuters recently. And China Investment Corporation (CIC), with $575 billion in assets, allocates around 32 percent of its global investments to public equities and a similar proportion to 'long term' investments including private equity, real estate and infrastructure, OMFIF says. In the rush to cash in on bumper property prices and a resurgence in global stocks, little thought has been given to the consequence of such major inflows, say private investors. "People don't spend enough time discussing what the supposed merits of these vehicles are .. What's concerning is that the pool of so-called savings is put in the hands of so few people to be allocated," said Michael Cirami, co-director and portfolio manager at Eaton Vance Investment Managers. Yngve Slyngstad, chief executive of Norway's sovereign wealth fund conceded the potential for distortions created by state-backed funds' involvement in markets but stressed his fund addressed the issue with strict internal guidelines. "It is not an issue that I take lightly," he told Reuters. "We have put in place some obvious things like a very high requirement of transparency, limits on ownership, being as clear as possible on how we deal with our ownership roles." Nevertheless the presence - or otherwise - of a sovereign wealth investor is already causing changes to trading patterns. When Qatar Holding cut a stake in London Stock Exchange by a third last July, analysts said demand for the shares on sale was boosted because some investors had previously shied away from the company on the basis that the presence of big institutional investors rendered it illiquid and potentially more volatile. And further impact seems inevitable. If official institutions manage $29 trillion, even a relatively conservative allocation in portfolios to equities of 10 percent could represent as much as $2.9 trillion in funds. That would be enough to move global markets given that the market cap of the MSCI All Country Index amounts to $38 trillion.  NEW RULES Growing anxiety about the rise of state-backed funds participating in capital markets prompted the International Monetary Fund to sit down with an international group of them in 2008 to draw up a set of voluntary practices on transparency and disclosure. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) has also compiled guidelines on corporate governance of state-owned enterprises, that specifies the need to avoid conflicts of interest within state bureaucracies and central banks. "The OECD recommendation is always that if the government has a significant share in some corporate assets, then it must have a clear separation between its role as an owner and its regulatory functions," said Hans Christiansen, a senior economist at the OECD's Corporate Affairs division. But state-backed investment is accelerating: Sovereign funds spent $24.5 billion on mergers and acquisitions in the first half of 2014, the most in any six month period since 2010, according to Thomson Reuters data. As a result, many think that current guidelines are not enough to defuse potential problems. "Credit and capital flows are being politicized. It’s a disturbing trend and will lead to tears in the end," said Steve Hanke, professor of economics at the Johns Hopkins University and fellow at think tank the Cato Institute. However, investment with political rather than financial motives is rare among sovereign funds, counters the OECD's Christiansen. And their business is the important one of managing money for future generations. That's too simplistic, says Hanks. "The idea that a sovereign wealth fund is not politicized is a joke. And the big problem is that once something becomes politicized, it becomes opaque."  (Editing by Sophie Walker) FREE AppDownload
APMembers Congress climb the steps of the House of Representatives for final votes, at the Capitol in Washington, Thursday, July 31, 2014.Conservative groups are gearing up for a fight over the Export-Import Bank, weeks ahead of a deadline to pass a bill to keep the government funded and operating. The heads of two prominent groups — Heritage Action and the Club for Growth — wrote a letter to House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-California) on Monday urging him to let the bank's charter expire Sept. 30.  "The Export-Import Bank is a small thing, this we know," Chris Chocola of the Club for Growth and Mike Needham of Heritage Action wrote on Monday, the first day Congress was back in session after a five-week end-of-summer recess. "But Leader McCarthy, if you can’t start with the Export-Import Bank, then how can Americans trust the Republican Party to tackle the big challenges our nation faces after six years of President Obama and his failed policies?" The expiration of the bank's charter comes with the same deadline to pass a continuing resolution to keep the government funded and avoid another federal government shutdown. Renewing the bank's charter has become a source of heated debate within the Republican Party, with many — including the party's leaders like McCarthy, House Financial Services Committee Chair Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas), and House Budget Committee Chair Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wisconsin) — saying it serves as little more than a source of corporate welfare. The bank provides direct loans, guarantees, and credit insurance to aid foreign purchasers in buying American-made goods. But House leaders also desperately want to avoid even a hint of drama leading up to a potential shutdown scenario, especially ahead of crucial midterm elections. In a recent interview with Business Insider, Ryan suggested the House would pass a short-term reauthorization of the bank's charter, postponing a more comprehensive debate over the bank until after the elections. The House could also try to attach an Ex-Im Bank reauthorization to the bill to keep the government funded. "Many of us who are critical of the bank feel that the wisest course is to carry this fight into next year," Ryan said. Immediately after the groups' letter to McCarthy was released, Heritage Action said separately it would "key vote" against any legislation including any reauthorization of the bank — including a continuing resolution.  "In terms of politics, there will be some who profess opposition to Ex-Im while publicly worrying that President Obama and Senate Democrats will consider an extension of the bank as a prerequisite to fund the federal government," Heritage Action communications director Dan Holler said.  "Such partisan brinksmanship on the eve of an important national election would be detrimental, they will argue. But Ex-Im is the poster child for cronyism and corporate welfare, and conservatives cannot shy away the national spotlight. Conservatives will not drift into catching a national electoral wave in their favor — they must work to earn a decisive election. The conservative-led demise of the Export-Import Bank would allow America’s supposedly conservative party to shed the ugly and poorly fitting clothes of cronyism that many have worn for far too long." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCitigroup logo is pictured from the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeNEW YORK (Reuters) - Citigroup Inc's &lt;c.n&gt; third-quarter expenses are running "slightly higher" than three months ago because of efforts to prove to regulators that its risk and balance sheet management is good enough to allow more spending for dividends and share buybacks, the bank's chief financial officer said on Monday. John Gerspach told an investor conference the company is "well on the way to making needed changes" in its capital planning for the Federal Reserve's next stress test early next year. In March, the Fed Reserve rejected Citigroup's last capital plan in a surprising rebuke for Chief Executive Officer Mike Corbat. Gerspach acknowledged that the company had been wrongly confident in that plan. He said the company had 'a false set of understanding' of Fed requirements going into that test and has since been working constantly to improve its management. Gerspach, in the first comments on third-quarter trading results from a major Wall Street executive, also said equity and fixed income market revenue is "roughly in line" with a year earlier. Investment banking revenue is expected to be better than a year earlier, but less than in the second quarter because of seasonally lower underwriting, Gerspach said. The CFO also said that Citigroup now estimates that a hypothetical one percentage point rise in short and long-term rates would increase the company's 2014 earnings by 43 cents a share. Stock analysts estimate, on average, that the company will earn about $3.69 per share this year, according to Thomson Reuters. In Monday morning trading in New York Citigroup shares were up 0.3 percent to $52.46.   (Reporting by David Henry in New York; Editing by Tom Brown) FREE AppDownload
If history is any guide, Apple's stock is set to drop on Tuesday.  Apple analyst Gene Munster included the following table in a report on what happens to Apple's stock during iPhone launch events. On the day of the announcement, it drops, then the stock often climbs before the iPhone goes on sale. Then, the day of the sale, it drops. Piper Jaffray FREE AppDownload
BoeingA computer rendering of the Boeing 737 MAX 200. Boeing launched on Monday a new version of its most successful airplane, the 737, with an $11 billion order from Ryanair, Europe’s biggest low-cost airline, which plans to buy as many 737 MAX 200 twinjets.    A statement from The Boeing Co. (NYSE:BA) said Ryanair placed an order for 100 airplanes and has options to purchase another 100. The MAX 200 will seat up to 200 passengers. It will feature the same size fuselage at the 737-800, but will allow for increased seating thanks to an extra emergency exit, which lets airlines put in more seats by making the evacuation of more passengers in an emergency possible. According to Boeing,  the new plane will burn 20 percent less fuel per seat than the current most efficient single-aisle airplanes.  This computer rendering of a 737 MAX 200 in Ryanair colors shows the extra passenger door that allows increased seating . Unlike regular 737s, the MAX 200 has two exits behind the wing, not one. That means more passengers can be evacuated during an emergency, and more seats can be squeezed into the same length fuselage.  The Boeing Co. Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary said in a statement that, with the new order, the airline plans to operate 520 aircraft by 2024 and create 3,000 new jobs for pilots, cabin crew and engineers in Europe. Ryanair is the biggest operator of the Boeing 737 in Europe and the second-biggest in the world after U.S.-based Southwest Airlines (NYSE:LUV).   The 737 MAX is a re-engined version, with other improvements, of the current 737 family, and will feature three basic models: the MAX 7, MAX 8 and MAX 9, in order of size. They are based on the current 737-700, 800 and 900 models, and will carry up to 220 passengers over a range of 3,800 nautical miles (7,000 km). The MAX 200 will essentially be a larger-capacity MAX 8.   The first flight of a 737 MAX is scheduled for 2016, according to Boeing, with deliveries to customers beginning in 2017. Customers have ordered 2,239 of the new airplanes to date.The 737 MAX’s direct competitor, the Airbus A320neo, which was launched earlier than the Boeing model, is scheduled for a first flight this month and has already garnered more than 3,000 orders.   FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of ZillowZillow CEO Spencer Rascoff.   Tech IPOs are back on the mind of investors ahead of Alibaba's IPO, which is expected later this month Rascoff says that for a tech company, there are usually one or two main questions it must address ahead of its offering, and that within a couple years, these questions are usually answered for better or worse. Since going public in back in July 2011 at $20 per share, Zillow shares have more than sextupled in value, though the stock followed Rascoff's model.  After just about two years as a public company, Zillow's stock price really took off, as the company perhaps began to answer to some investor concerns. And with this experience Rascoff offers a great perspective on the challenges Alibaba is likely to face in the coming weeks, months, and years. Here's Rascoff's full tweetstorm. 1/ Interesting to think of recent tech IPOs &amp; how investors’ questions at #IPO time played out.  2/ I’m oversimplifying, but usually there are just 1 or 2 questions that #IPO investors debate on a new issue. 3/ The q for $FB IPO was mobile monetization. Investors at #IPO time disagreed on their chances on mobile.  4/ Clearly $FB “figured out” mobile monetization, and #IPO investors who were long $FB benefited. 5/ The q on $TWTR #IPO was about potential audience reach and explaining the service to newbies.  6/ Secondary question at $TWTR #IPO was on mobile monetization.  7/ Some are still debating those $TWTR #IPO questions, but I am bullish and have put $ where mouth is.  8/ The q on $LNKD #IPO was whether the service could go mainstream &amp; be useful to non-job-switchers. 9/ Clearly $LNKD #IPO investors who were long got it right.  10/ The question at $ZNGA &amp; $KING #IPOs was whether they were hit-driven. Early results not looking good. 11/ Main question at $ZU #IPO was about their ship-times (too long?) and impact on total addressable market.  12/ The question at $TRUP $SSTK $CRCM &amp; $GPRO #IPO was about market size.  13/ The question at $GRPN #IPO was about “deal fatigue” &amp; transition to “push” ecommerce. 14/ $CHGG #IPO was about their transition to digital.  15/ Question at $YELP #IPO was about $GOOG threat and market size  16/ $P #IPO was about $AAPL &amp; @spotify threat, + mobile monetization.  17/ $AWAY #IPO was about their switch from paid listings to commission model 18/ $GRUB #IPO was about @grubhub @seemless M&amp;A integration, + market size  19/ $ANGI #IPO question was about sustainability of charging for content. 20/ Alibaba $BABA #IPO debate will be about valuation and transparency of financials.  21/ My point is with all of these IPOs: the debate among investors at #IPO time was usually the right one.  22/ Different investors came out with different perspectives on the fundamental issue facing an #IPO.  23/ Over the following 1-2 years post #IPO, the answers became obvious.  24/ #IPO investing is not for the meek. 25 / #IPO twitterstorm complete. ###         FREE AppDownload
ABC / screengrabWall Street is a marketplace of eligible bachelors and bachelorettes. Right now, we're taking nominations for our "Wall Street's Most Eligible Bachelors/Bachelorettes" list. We're not just looking for someone with good looks and a great job, but also someone with a little extra. They have to be interesting and active, whether it's through volunteer/philanthropy work or with their extracurricular activities/hobbies/interests. You can send an email (subject line: bachelor/bachelorette) to jlaroche@businessinsider.com and llopez@businessinsider.com with your nomination. Please be sure to include reasons why the person should be included on the list. Make sure you send a photo or photos of the person.   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersU.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew takes a question from a reporter during a cybersecurity-related tour of a Verizon network operations center at their facility in Ashburn, VirginiaWASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew on Monday called for swift action to close a federal tax code "loophole" that allows businesses to reincorporate abroad to avoid U.S. corporate taxes, but offered no new ideas for how to do that. Amid growing concern among Washington policy-makers about these transactions known as inversions, Lew said the Treasury Department "is completing an evaluation of what we can do to make these deals less economically appealing, and we plan to make a decision in the very near future." Though still rare and difficult to do, inversions have become more frequent among U.S. multinationals in recent years, with notable companies such as medical technology group Medtronic Inc &lt;mdt.n&gt; pursuing them. The U.S. government has grappled for more than 30 years with inversions. Fifty-two substantial deals like this have occurred since 1983, about half of them since the 2008-2009 credit crisis, according to a Reuters analysis. Laying out his views on Monday in a speech at a Washington think tank, Lew reiterated proposals already made by Democratic President Barack Obama that would make the deals more difficult to do. He also emphasized that the best way to address them is through broad business tax reform. "Any action we take will have a strong legal and policy basis, but will not be a substitute for meaningful legislation ... Only a change in the law can shut the door, and only tax reform can solve the problems in our tax code that leads to inversions," he said. The likelihood of a comprehensive overhaul of the tax code this year is very remote, with congressional elections coming in November and lawmakers deeply divided over fiscal issues, according to policy analysts. Lew acknowledged this, but referring to inversions, said "there is one loophole that should be shut down immediately." He said, "Right now, our tax system rewards U.S. corporations when they buy foreign companies and then declare that they are based overseas ... By effectively renouncing their citizenship but remaining here, these companies are eroding America’s corporate tax base." Obama has been asking Congress for the past four years to act on fresh proposals from the White House to curb inversion deals. The president has proposed making inversions harder to do by lowering the level of continued U.S. ownership permitted for a company to be treated as a foreign corporation. He has also urged a "substantial business activities" test that would deny foreign company status where operations are still primarily located in the United States and U.S.-managed. In past proposals, he has also called for extending inversion limits to partnerships, as well as fighting U.S. earnings stripping by tightening the limits on deductibility of interest paid by inverted U.S. companies on inter-company debt, a practice often associated with inverted companies.   (Reporting by Kevin Drawbaugh; Editing by W Simon and Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
Jason Merritt / Getty ImagesBillionaire entrepreneur and investor Mark Cuban.Billionaires and CEOs have something in common with the rest of us: They didn't know everything in their 20s. The people who start and run awesome companies, write best-sellers, and become household names haven't always known what was best for their money. How do we know? We asked them. From investor Mark Cuban, who laments his misuse of credit cards, to TOMS founder Blake Mycoskie, who cautions against chasing money, keep reading to find out how investors, CEOs, authors, and other highly successful people answered the question: What do you wish you'd known about money in your 20s? FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst Harvard University President Emeritus Larry Summers speaks during a panel discussion on financial crises at the International Monetary Fund (IMF) Jacques Polak Annual Reasearch Conference in Washington, November 8, 2013. Larry Summers's secular stagnation speech at the IMF in November last year set the economic world ablaze as the Harvard professor warned that asset bubbles might be necessary for developed economies to reach their potential growth. Now it seems he may have changed his mind. Secular stagnation is a situation in a rich country where real economic growth has ground to a halt or remains at a very low level due to chronic underinvestment in future potential. The lack of investment leads to falling per capita incomes over time and stagnant demand. In order for such an economy to stave off high unemployment it is necessary to pump up asset bubbles in order to mimic the effects of growth. What it needs, in other words, is repeated bouts of spending to increase demand whether from the private or public sector. However, in an article in the Financial Times over the weekend Summers said that the strength of the U.S. labor market may point to impending supply-side chokes rather than a problem of demand. He writes: It seems much more likely that employment growth would slow at some point, because of rising wage costs or policy actions, or because employers have difficulty finding workers. Then, the economy would be held back not by lack of demand but lack of supply potential. If all economic indicators were running below potential, for example with high unemployment, low inflation and GDP below potential, you would identify the problem as being insufficient demand. The appropriate response then would be for monetary and fiscal policy to remain accommodating in order to allow the economy to reach its potential as quickly as possible. FREDThe unemployment rate continues to fall What Summers is suggesting is that the U.S. labor market, as illustrated by the unemployment rate, is actually already nearing a level consistent with most of the slack already having been used up. That is, workers do not seem to be facing an abnormally difficult market in which to find jobs if they wish to do so. As he says, hints of similar labor market tightness can be seen by looking at "job openings and vacancies, new unemployment insurance claims, or the short-term unemployment rate". So what does this mean? Firstly, it means that some of the damage from the financial crisis may be irreversible. Whether due to an insufficient size or poorly targeted policy response to crisis in the initial stages of the credit crunch, a permanent hit to productivity in affected sectors like financial services or more likely some combination of both at least a portion of the American economy's potential may have been lost. If true, this could mean that interest rates will have to rise faster than many currently expect in order to head off wage-growth driven inflation. Secondly, Summers is saying that in order for the economy to get back some of that lost potential it will require deeper structural reforms than the secular stagnation thesis would have indicated. This could mean additional spending on infrastructure and education, but also addressing politically challenging issues such as immigration reform and a review of corporate tax rates. Failure to achieve meaningful change in these areas could ensure that the damage from the recession leaves a permanent scar. Summers says that if the current trend were to continue the unemployment rate would then fall to about 4% by the end of 2016 - a scenario he thinks would be unlikely as rising wage costs or policy action (presumably to head off inflation or to close the budget deficit) would hold it back. History, however, offers a warning about making assumptions about the impact of an improving job market on the inflation outlook.  His words reminded me of a warning given by the San Francisco Fed president Janet Yellen in December 1996, when the unemployment rate had fallen to 5.4%: To my mind, labor markets are undeniably tight ... But while I think we cannot rule out the possibility that this long expansion is about to end with a period of stagflation and that that is a significant risk over the term of this forecast, that outcome is by no means a certainty. All of the policy ideas Summers puts forwards would lay a solid base on which to build a lasting recovery and, to my mind at least, would be sensible at almost any time but especially when government borrowing costs are as low as they currently are. But it appears to me that, at present, the situation is at least consistent with his secular stagnation thesis in the absence of obvious inflationary pressures. If the U.S. government is going to spend it should do so wisely and not wildly, but they should not be cowed by recent developments in the labor market.   FREE AppDownload
Sotheby's International RealtyPrivate equity exec Marc Holtzman is selling his New Zealand home for $3.94 million (NZD$4.75 million), newspaper Mountain Scene reports. Holtzman is the chairman of Hong Kong-based private equity firm Meridian Capital. He previously served as Vice Chairman of Barclays. In 2006, he made a run for Governor of Colorado as a Republican.  Sotheby's International Realty in Queenstown has the listing.  FREE AppDownload
BloombergDavid Bianco.Bullishness is in the air. Last week Morgan Stanley and RBC Capital said we were only in the early stages of the bull market. And that was followed by an uber-bullish Barron's cover story. All year Deutsche Bank's David Bianco held the title of most bearish strategist on Wall Street for 2014. With a measly 1,850 year-end target for S&amp;P 500, Bianco was caught behind the curve as the bull market extended its historic five-year long run. In a new research note to clients, Bianco cranks up his 2014 and 2015 calls and unveils a big 2016 call. Here's a summary: Currently, the median year-end target for the S&amp;P 500 is at 2,000, which puts Bianco on the bullish side. Pension Partners via @MktOutperformBearishness is at its lowest level since February 1987.The worry for market watchers and investors is that we're running out of bears to keep the bulls in check. In other words, the market may be a little too exuberant and may be at risk of a violent sell-off. A recent Investors Intelligence survey revealed that bearishness is now at its lowest level since 1987. "The history of Sentiment reminds us that it’s more dangerous to have an evaporation of bears compared to a plethora of bulls," said FBN Securities' J.C. O'Hara. For now, Bianco believes the fundamentals are on his side. "We still expect a long lasting economic expansion of moderate growth, which should rival the US record of 10 years with S&amp;P EPS growth averaging 6% until the next recession, on 5% sales growth, flat margins, 1% share shrink," Bianco wrote. "Despite entering the latter years of a typical expansion and high margins vs. history, we now think the trailing S&amp;P PE should average 17 vs. 16 until elevated recession risk returns." Like most strategists, Bianco doesn't see a market downturn happening with out a recession. This is bullish as most economists are convinced that a U.S. recession is a ways off. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/2TangoHealth workers wearing protective clothing prepare themselves before to carrying an abandoned dead body presenting with Ebola symptoms at Duwala market in Monrovia Aug. 17, 2014. A possible Ebola treatment is making the stock of yet another company go nuts. Shares of Hemispherx Biopharma, a small biotech company with a market cap of just $50 million, were up as much as 26% in pre-market trade on Monday after the company said the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases agreed to collaborate with the company on studies for a potential Ebola treatment.  In a press release, Hemispherx said, "the Company and USAMRIID scientists have agreed to test Alferon, the only multi-species, natural alpha interferon commercially approved in the U.S. and Ampligen, an experimental drug, to be evaluated against the deadly Ebola virus, which has been and remains a major focus of efforts at USAMRIID, a unit of the Department of Defense responsible for medical biological defense research." The surge in shares of Hemispherx on Monday comes after a summer that has seen Tekmira Pharmaceuticals gain more than 35% in the last three months on hopes that a trial of the company's Ebola drug candidate, TKM-Ebola, could be used as an Ebola treatment. In July, the FDA released its hold on TKM-Ebola to a "partial clinical hold," which allows for the potential use of the drug in patients who either have Ebola or are suspected to have the disease. The announcement from Hemispherx comes after an AP report said Liberia has again become a hotspot for the disease after doctors believed they had the disease beat.  FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderIf MF Global CEO Jon Corzine could have stayed solvent going long on eurozone peripheral sovereign debt back in 2011, he would be the stuff of Wall Street legend right now. As Deutsche Bank analysts Stuart Kirk, Rineesh Bansal, and Gaël Gunubu point out in a note, the bond market ultimately turned in Corzine's favor. From the note: Spanish officials must giggle at being able to borrow at 4 percent for half a century. One man surely sobbing into his beard however is ex-MF Global boss Jon Corzine ... How tantalizingly close he was to being hailed the cleverest man on the planet. Just one month later Italian yields peaked, then Portugal’s did, then Spain’s — before Mario Draghi’s speech began the mother of all bond rallies. So Corzine was right, but his timing was wrong — and his execution was poor, to say the very least. The former New Jersey governor and CEO of Goldman Sachs was brought down not only by his highly levered $7 billion position, but also by the scandal that followed. After MF Global collapsed, it was investigated for illegally using customer funds to avoid what was ultimately a $1 billion margin call. The details revealed in the investigation were brutal. According to one former employee, the  final days at MF Global were a "total cluster---." Corzine and other executives were called to testify before Congress about the affair. Last November the firm was ordered to pay $1.2 billion to wronged customers and handed an additional $100 million in fines to the CFTC. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man walks past a branch of The Royal Bank of Scotland in central London(Reuters) - Citizens Financial Group Inc, the U.S. unit of Britain's Royal Bank of Scotland , said its initial public offering was expected to raise as much as $3.5 billion, making it the biggest U.S. offering by a bank this year. The company said the offering of 140 million shares was expected to be priced at between $23 and $25 each. At the top end of the range the company will be valued at $14 billion. (http://1.usa.gov/1tlcS0t) All the shares in the offering are being sold by RBS. RBS said last year it would sell 20-25 percent of Citizens by the end of 2014 through a U.S. IPO as the bank faces pressure from British regulators to bolster its capital and sell off non-core assets. Citizens, which provides retail and commercial banking services to about 5 million customers in the United States, intends to list its common stock on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "CFG". Citizens had $130.3 billion of total assets and more than 1,200 branches in 11 states across the New England, Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions as of June 30. Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs &amp; Co and JPMorgan are the lead underwriters for the IPO.  (Reporting By Neha Dimri in Bangalore; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriA man dressed as Captain America after washing his hands in the bathroom at ComicCon in New York in 2013.The U.S. economy is in pretty good shape. GDP is growing, unemployment is falling, and we're seeing signs that wages may be on the rise. However, the U.S. economic story is actually just an aggregation of 50 economic stories. Previously, Business Insider examined ranked every state by how quickly the economies were growing. This time around, we calculated which states had the best economies outright.  We ranked each state on seven economic measures: the July unemployment rate; the change in nonfarm payroll jobs from June to July 2014; the 2013 GDP per capita; the 2012 per capita consumption; the 2013 average annual wage; the 2013 exports per capita; and the 2012 government expenditures. For more details on the sources of the data click here. Or, go ahead and just check out the states. FREE AppDownload
Russian President Vladimir Putin must answer this: How can his country, with an economy the size Italy’s, restore the glory it once enjoyed as the Soviet empire? The answer is that it cannot, which means Putin is either clueless or careless. The alternative world system that Moscow’s new tsar is trying to construct is too feeble, and even if it grows teeth, Russia would be the junior partner next to juggernaut China. Putin has yet to come to terms with the downfall of the Soviet Union. Maybe he thinks its collapse could have been avoided had it not been for an organized Western effort to bring Russia to its knees. Putin’s masquerading as the hero who will reverse Russia’s humiliation is the cornerstone of his self-perceived power, especially since his engineered comeback to the presidency in 2012. To restore Russian glory, Putin thinks he can reconstruct the Soviet Union, or at least most of it. Thus, he has strong-armed smaller neighbors and former Soviet republics – like Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan – to join his Eurasian Economic Union, and has clashed with, occupied or sponsored separatist movements in former Soviet states that have refused to concede, such as Ukraine and Georgia. But USSR 2.0 is nowhere close to its original version, which at its peak was the world’s second largest economy and enjoyed a larger sphere of trade and influence. Vox quoted JP Morgan’s Michael Cembalest as saying that “the bulk of economic power in the former communist bloc now isn’t Putin’s to command, and often is aligned against him.” Perhaps Putin thinks he can replace the Soviet empire’s lost muscle with a new anti-Western bloc, BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa), whose first step was the creation of a bank – conceived and structured along the lines of the World Bank – to doll out loans to governments that need them, with no conditions attached. With 25% of the world’s economy and 40% of its population, BRICS can theoretically compete with the West. Yet that does not mean BRICS will behave like Putin or support his bullying. And while it is true that China has, together with Russia, vetoed many UN Security Council resolutions on Syria, Beijing parted ways with Moscow over Crimea. In fact, Russia’s fellow BRICS members have yet to recognize its annexation of Crimea, which won the endorsement of only 14 nations, including pariah states like Syria, Sudan, North Korea, Cuba and Venezuela, in addition to the few former Soviet republics that Moscow dominates. Since first taking office in 2000, Putin has overseen one of Russia’s most impressive GDP expansions, from $196 billion to $2 trillion today. Yet Putin has overestimated his newfound strength. Unlike China’s economic success, driven by exports and investments, Russia’s rise – like that of Brazil – has been dependent on the sale of fossil fuel and other natural resources. When the West started slamming sanctions on Putin, he feared that Europe might find an alternative gas supplier, which would result in a decline in Moscow’s revenue. Believing that he could disentangle his economy from the West, Putin turned East and signed a deal with China. But realizing that Moscow was desperate, Beijing got a reduced price. This means that if Europe dumps him, Putin will still sell his fossil fuel, but for less cash, which he now desperately needs to fund the army he is modernizing and the lands he is conquering. The Russia-China deal suggests that Beijing will not come to Putin’s rescue in his showdown with the West, but would rather exploit his weaknesses. In the end, the bigger role Putin assumes the more Western sanctions will increase and the less revenue he will have. The Russian Treasury will start juggling its finances to make ends meet, and Moscow has already announced new taxes. Putin has no strategy. He has not thought his new world order through. Russia’s $2 trillion economy cannot possibly beat the US, the EU and Japan, whose combined economies are worth $41 trillion. While BRICS enjoys irritating the West, they will not go as far as rocking the current order that has given them, especially China, their newfound wealth. “The imperial horn has been sounded. But we are a Third World kleptocracy hiding behind imperial symbols. There are no resources for a true imperial revival,” Russian analyst Stanislav Belkovsky told The New Yorker. With his populism and oil money, Putin may have made Russians feel better, but he is certainly taking them in the wrong direction. Sanctions might not have immediate effects, but they will bite soon, and they will make Putin evermore belligerent the face of subsequent Russian pain. Hussain Abdul-Hussain is the Washington Bureau Chief of Kuwaiti newspaper Alrai. He tweets @hahussain. This article originally appeared at Now Lebanon. Follow Now Lebanon on Facebook. Copyright 2014. Follow Now Lebanon on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidSpecialist trader Jason Hardzewicz gives the price for Hertz rental car at the opening bell on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange August 20, 2014.Hertz shares were up more than 3% in pre-market trade on Monday after the company's CEO resigned.  In a press release, the company announced that Mark Frissora would step down as chairman and CEO, citing personal reasons. The company said that Brian MacDonald, president and CEO of Hertz Equipment Rental Corporation, will serve as interim CEO of Hertz, Linda Fayne Levinson, independent lead director of the Hertz board, has been appointed independent non-executive chair of the board, and the company has initiated a search process to identify a permanent CEO.  Frissora's resignation comes after what has been a tough summer for Hertz. On August 20, shares of the rental car company fell sharply after Hertz withdrew its full-year financial guidance and review results from its 2011, 2012, and 2013 fiscal years. With that announcement, the company said only that its 2014 results would be "well below" the low-end of its guidance provided in March, which said the company would earn $1.70-$2.00 per share on $11.4-$11.7 billion in revenue.  Additionally, according to an August 20 filing with the SEC, activist hedge fund manager Carl Ichan holds a 38 million share stake, equivalent to about 8.5% of the company, in Hertz.  In his filing, Icahn said he intends to hold discussions with the company's management, "relating to shareholder value, accounting issues, operational failures, underperformance relative to its peers and [Icahn's] lack of confidence in management." FREE AppDownload
A tenuous cease-fire between Ukraine and Russian-backed separatists is holding for now, but the prospect of a political deal to end the crisis is still far away. With Ukrainian parliamentary elections seven weeks away and tensions simmering, there is little chance that Kiev will make concessions that Vladimir Putin demands before fighting breaks out again. Yuri V. Lutsenko, an influential adviser to Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko who is leading his party in elections, wrote on Sunday that the idea of creating a special autonomous region in the east would be “a cancerous tumor in the Ukrainian organism.”  He added that “when our living standard will be attractive even for Kremlin-poisoned Donbass citizens, we will open the doors to all who recognize the integral, unitary European Ukraine.” However, Putin has a lot of things going for him in the medium-to-long term, including Ukraine's imploding economy, the threat of a further Russian invasion, the hesitance of Europe, the fact that winter is coming, the state of Ukraine's battered army and militias. Putin's aim in Ukraine may involve creating a frozen conflict with a breakaway region in Ukraine's southeast corner, or he could push toward creating a land bridge with Crimea (which was annexed in March). The latter option would intensify the war significantly. In any case, all signs point to a lengthy struggle between Russia and the West as Putin imposes his will. REUTERS FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man walks past a branch of The Royal Bank of Scotland in central London(Reuters) - Citizens Financial Group Inc, the U.S. unit of Britain's Royal Bank of Scotland , said its initial public offering was expected to raise as much as $3.5 billion, making it the biggest U.S. offering by a bank this year. The company said the offering of 140 million shares was expected to be priced at between $23 and $25 each. At the top end of the range the company will be valued at $14 billion. (http://1.usa.gov/1tlcS0t) All the shares in the offering are being sold by RBS. RBS said last year it would sell 20-25 percent of Citizens by the end of 2014 through a U.S. IPO as the bank faces pressure from British regulators to bolster its capital and sell off non-core assets. Citizens, which provides retail and commercial banking services to about 5 million customers in the United States, intends to list its common stock on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "CFG". Citizens had $130.3 billion of total assets and more than 1,200 branches in 11 states across the New England, Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions as of June 30. Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs &amp; Co and JPMorgan are the lead underwriters for the IPO.  (Reporting By Neha Dimri in Bangalore; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA worker restocks Campbell's soup cans inside a Fresh & Easy store in Burbank(Reuters) - Campbell Soup Co  on Monday reported a quarterly profit on strong sales in its Bolthouse business. Net income was $137 million, or 43 cents a share, in the fourth quarter ended on Aug. 3, compared with a year-earlier loss of $158 million, or 50 cents a share. For fiscal 2015, Campbell expects sales growth of 1 percent to 2 percent and adjusted earnings per share of $2.45 to $2.50.  (Reporting by Anjali Athavaley; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
Dave Lutz of JonesTrading has the top topics about which traders are talking today: US futures are ticking slightly lower as the Growth trade is under pressure – not just fresh EU sanctions, but a Scotland Poll this weekend has Pound getting whacked, UK and EU equities under pressure – and a bid under Bunds and Treasuries. The Ukrainian Cease-Fire held over the weekend, but Micex is off small. Trade is light right now, with the DAX off 20bp in volumes 10% light to the last few weeks. FTSE is trading 60% heavier than normal as it loses 1%. A quiet day over in Asia (China, Taiwan, and South Korea closed), Japan GDP revised lower weighed on Yen, sparking a 20bp pop in Nikkei. Aussie Stocks going Ex Divvy pressed their market lower as miners were unchanged - Emerging markets are jumping, led by a 1% overnight jump in India as they approach festival season. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Flag of Scotland, the Saltire, blows in the wind near Berwick-upon-Tweed on the border between England and Scotland LONDON (Reuters) - The British government is not making contingency plans for the possibility that Scots will vote for independence on Sept. 18, a spokesman for Prime Minister David Cameron said on Monday. With 10 days to go before the vote, a YouGov poll for the Sunday Times showed supporters of independence had taken their first opinion poll lead since the referendum campaign began. When asked if the government's position on making contingency plans had changed following that poll, Cameron's spokesman told reporters: "No. There has been no change here. The government's entire focus ... is on making the case for the UK staying together." Cameron will visit Scotland ahead of the vote to continue to argue the case for Scotland's 307-year union with England remaining intact, the spokesman said. "It is very important to go out with the strong argument that the government and others have and to make that case, because the argument has to be won. There has never been any complacency whatsoever about the importance of going out and making the argument," he said. Britain's three main political parties are due to set out this week the detail of and timetable for plans to hand Scotland greater powers if it rejects independence. (Reporting by Kylie MacLellan, writing by Guy Faulconbridge, editing by Michael Holden) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo Allegri People after the Diane von Furstenberg Spring/Summer 2015 collection show during New York Fashion Week in Manhattan on Sunday.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Scotland May Actually Vote 'Yes' For Independence. A new poll out of the U.K. revealed that voters favoring Scottish independence were in the lead. "While the vote (on Sept. 18) has been expected to be close for some time, very few gave the pro-Independence YES side much of a chance of actually winning," BI's Joe Weisenthal reported. "That's now officially changed, and it now looks like a coin-toss as to whether Scotland will leave Great Britain and become an independent nation." The Pound Is Getting Destroyed. Amid all of this uncertainty, the British pound is getting slammed. It was down about 1% against the U.S. dollar and the euro early Monday. Markets Are In The Red. In Europe, Britain's FTSE is down 0.9%, France's CAC 40 is down 0.3%, and Germany's DAX is down 0.1%. Asia closed mixed, with Japan's Nikkei up 0.2% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng down 0.2%. U.S. futures are a point down, with Dow futures down 28 points and S&amp;P futures down 2.9 points. China's Trade Report Was Good And Bad. China's exports jumped 9.4% in August, beating expectations for a 9.0% growth. This is reflects the better-than-expected health of China's trading partners around the world. Imports, however, unexpectedly fell by 2.4%; economists were forecasting a 3.0% gain. Japan Shrinks More Than Expected. "Japan's economy shrank an annualized 7.1% in April-June from the previous quarter, more than a preliminary estimate, underscoring concerns the hit from an April increase in the sales tax may have been bigger than expected," reported Reuters' Leika Kihara. "The revised contraction was the biggest since January-March 2009, when the global financial crisis hit Japan's exports and factory output, keeping policymakers under pressure to expand fiscal and monetary stimulus should the economy fail to recover from the disruption of the April tax hike." Germany's Trade Surplus Booms. Germany's exports jumped 4.7% in July, beating expectations for a 0.6% increase. This helped Germany's trade surplus widen to 23.4 billion euros, which compares with economists' expectations for 16.8 billion. "Today’s impressive rebound in Germany’s external balance is welcome news from the point of view of Q3 GDP growth, but also slightly difficult to square with a generally flat-lining trend in net trade in recent months," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. "[T]he incoming numbers for factory orders and industrial production also showed some odd upside surprises in July, and it is still too early to say whether this marks the beginning of a new positive trend." European Investor Confidence Crashes. The Sentix investor confidence index plunged to -9.8 in September from +2.7 in August. Investors were expecting a print of +1.4. "Today’s drop marks the lowest reading of the aggregate Sentix index since July 2013, and indicates that investors are still downbeat," noted Pantheon's Vistesen. "We had hoped for stabilization in investor sentiment this month given a rebound in equity prices, a weaker euro, and expectations of additional action by the ECB. But we are seeing little signs of this so far in this first investor survey for September." Alibaba To Raise $21 Billion In Its IPO. In an SEC filing on Friday afternoon, Alibaba said it would offer up to 320 million shares for between $60 and $66 per share. This would put the company's market value at about $160 billion. Yahoo!. "After pouring about $1 billion nine years ago into Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., Yahoo! Inc. is set to reap a massive haul as the Chinese e-commerce company goes public: more than $8 billion," reported Bloomberg's Brian Womack. "The payout would punctuate Yahoo’s long investment after Alibaba pushed up the value of the Sunnyvale, California-based Web portal over the years. A new war chest of cash would enable Yahoo to do more buybacks and potentially more acquisitions." GE Appliances Are Heading To Electrolux. "Sweden's Electrolux said on Monday it would buy General Electric Co.'s appliances business for $3.3 billion in cash to double sales in North America and take on rival Whirlpool Corp. in its biggest ever deal," reported Reuters' Simon Johnson. "Electrolux, which sells under brands such as Frigidaire, AEG, and Zanussi as well as its own name, is already the world's second-largest home appliance maker after Whirlpool, but has its strongest market position in Europe." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo of US conglomerate General Electric is pictured at the company's site in BelfortSTOCKHOLM (Reuters) - Sweden's Electrolux &lt;ELUXb.ST&gt; said on Monday it would buy General Electric Co's &lt;GE.N&gt; appliances business for $3.3 billion in cash to double sales in North America and take on rival Whirlpool Corp &lt;WHR.N&gt; in its biggest ever deal. Electrolux said in August it was in talks to buy the unit to tap into a market where it has lacked scale and that is growing faster than Europe.  Reuters reported earlier this month a deal was near completion.  "GE's premium, high-quality appliances complement our own iconic brands and will enhance our presence in North America,"  Electrolux Chief Executive Keith McLoughlin said in a statement. "The acquisition, which is our largest ever, strengthens our commitment to the appliance business and also provides Electrolux with the scale and opportunity to accelerate our investments in innovation and global growth." Electrolux, which sells under brands such as Frigidaire, AEG and Zanussi as well as its own name, is already the world's second-largest home appliance maker after Whirlpool, but has its strongest market position in Europe. In 2013, western Europe accounted for 28 percent of group sales while North America represented 32 percent. Organic growth in North America was 7 percent while in Europe it was 0.4 percent. The purchase of GE's Appliance's business  - including cookers, refrigerators, air conditioners and water heaters - will more than double Electrolux's sales in the U.S. market from the 31.9 billion crowns ($4.5 billion) it had in 2013. Last year, GE's Appliance business had sales of $5.7 billion, 90 percent of which were in North America, with earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of $390 million in 2013. Electrolux said the deal would be financed by a bridge facility and that it would undertake a rights issue corresponding to approximately 25 percent of the consideration following completion of the acquisition. The transaction is expected to generate annual cost savings of around $300 million and to be earnings accretive from the first year.              (Reporting by Simon Johnson; Editing by Matt Driskill and Susan Thomas) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michael DalderGerman Oliver Struempfl competes in Abensberg, September 7, 2014. Struempfl carried 27 mugs over 40 meters to set a new record for the Guinness book of records. The U.S. is winning and Europe is losing. That's the basic gist of the diverging global economic stories. Deteriorating data out of Europe has the European Central Bank surprising us with more monetary policy easing while strong U.S. economic data has Federal Reserve officials saying we should prepare for earlier tightening. Even Friday's relatively disappointing August jobs report was arguably good. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary At least a few top stock market strategists believe this bull market is far from over. On Tuesday, Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker predicted that the S&amp;P 500 could go from around 2,000 today to 3,000 in about five years before the bull market ends. "We believe a prolonged period of deleveraging in the U.S., coupled with an uneven global recovery, are just two of the reasons why this could prove to be the longest U.S. expansion — ever," Parker wrote. RBC Capital Markets' Jonathan Golub shared a similar sentiment in a research note publish around the same time as Parker's. "Earnings projections for 2015–16 have been rising since April, reversing a downward trend," Golub wrote. "We believe this reflects growing optimism (especially among CEOs via stronger guidance) on the direction of the economy. Given a lower cost of capital and enhanced growth prospects, we see further upside to stocks over the next several years." Years. For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
livestreamPaul Krugman at CUNY's Graduate Center.As the excitement over the Scottish independence referendum (on Sept. 18) heats up, Paul Krugman is getting in on the debate, with an important warning to the new would-be nation. If an independent Scotland continues to use the pound, as the leaders of the independence movement hope, then the country would be giving up a key measure of economic security. Krugman recalls what may be the biggest lesson we've learned from the eurozone crisis, which is that countries that can't print their own money can get into severe sovereign debt crises, while countries that have their own currencies don't (typically).  A good comparison is the U.K. vs. Ireland. Both had huge banking systems that required bailouts, but only in the U.K. (where they could print their own money) were these bailouts done smoothly, without imperiling the stability of the government. Krugman further demonstrates the importance of having your own currency by comparing Spain with Florida, a comparison he has made several times in the past. Spain got into severe trouble because it couldn't easily backstop its own banks or provide counter-cyclical fiscal relief to counteract the real-estate bust. Florida, on the other hand, didn't bear the entire burden of its downturn, and because of Federal fiscal backstops, there was no wholesale crisis of the Floridian banking system. If Spain and the other countries that gave up their own currencies to adopt the euro were part of a true federal system, with shared institutions of government, the recent economic history of Spain would have looked a lot like that of Florida. Both economies experienced a huge housing boom between 2000 and 2007. Both saw that boom turn into a spectacular bust. Both suffered a sharp downturn as a result of that bust. In both places the slump meant a plunge in tax receipts and a surge in spending on unemployment benefits and other forms of aid. Then, however, the paths diverged. In Florida’s case, most of the fiscal burden of the slump fell not on the local government but on Washington, which continued to pay for the state’s Social Security and Medicare benefits, as well as for much of the increased aid to the unemployed. There were large losses on housing loans, and many Florida banks failed, but many of the losses fell on federal lending agencies, while bank depositors were protected by federal insurance. You get the picture. In effect, Florida received large-scale aid in its time of distress. If Scotland doesn't have its own currency, it will not only be unable to provide a backstop to its banking system. It will be at the whim of U.K. monetary policy. If pro-Independence Scottish voters see keeping the pound as a positive, they ought to reconsider. FREE AppDownload
APS. Truett Cathy, founder of Chick-fil-A, poses in a replica of "The Dwarf Grill," the original restaurant he started in Atlanta in 1946.ATLANTA (AP) — S. Truett Cathy, the billionaire founder of the privately held Chick-fil-A restaurant chain that famously closes on Sundays but also drew unwanted attention on gay marriage in recent years because of his family's conservative views, died early Monday, a company spokesman said. He was 93. Chick-fil-A spokesman Mark Baldwin told The Associated Press that Cathy died at home surrounded by members of his family. Funeral plans had not yet been finalized, he said. Cathy opened his first postwar diner in an Atlanta suburb in 1946 and by 1967 he had founded and opened his first Chick-fil-A Inc. restaurant in Atlanta. Over ensuing decades, the chain's boneless chicken sandwich he is credited with inventing would propel Chick-fil-A expansion to more than 1,800 outlets in 39 states and the nation's capital. By early 2013, the company says on its website, annual sales topped $5 billion as the chain offered up a taste of the South that went beyond chicken to such offerings as sweet tea, biscuits and gravy. Under the religiously conservative founder, the chain gained prominence for its Bible Belt observance of Sunday — none of its hundreds of restaurants are open on that day, to allow employees a day of rest. Its executives often said the chain made as much money in six days as its competitors do in seven. Those religious views helped win Cathy and his family loyal following from conservative customers, but also invited protests when Cathy's son denounced gay marriage. Cathy's son, Dan, who is currently chairman and president of the chain, had told the Baptist Press in 2012 that the company was "guilty as charged" for backing "the biblical definition of a family." Gay rights groups and others called for boycotts and kiss-ins at Cathy's restaurants. The Jim Henson Co. pulled its Muppet toys from kids' meals, while politicians in Boston and Chicago told the chain it is not welcome there. The controversy later subsided. flickr/genericbrandproductions The family-owned company has said it has had 46 consecutive years of positive sales growth. Cathy's $6 billion fortune as the founder of Chick-fil-A puts him on the yearly Forbes magazine list of the wealthiest Americans in the country. The company has listed him on its website as its chairman emeritus after he left day-to-day operations to younger generations. Truett Cathy began his career in the restaurant business by opening with his brother in 1946 an Atlanta diner called The Dwarf Grill, which was named for the short and stout shape of the restaurant. He has attributed his hardworking nature — even as a little boy he made money by selling six bottles of Coca-Cola for a quarter — to growing up poor. "I've experienced poverty and plenty and there's a lesson to be learned when you're brought up in poverty," he said in 2007. "I had to create some good work habits and attitude." Even well into his 80s, Cathy was actively involved in the chain's operations, including setting up a contract with his children that said they may sell the privately-owned chain in the future but the company must never go public. "Why would I retire from something I enjoy doing?" Cathy said in a 2007 interview. "I can hardly wait to get here." An opportunity in 1961 led to the development of the restaurant chain's trademark chicken sandwich when a company that cooked boneless, skinless chicken for airline meals wanted to sell him pieces that were too big for the airline customer's needs. Cathy took those pieces and cooked them in a pressure cooker and served them in buttered buns. The sandwich was sold at independent restaurants for a few years before he opened his first Chick-fil-A restaurant at an Atlanta shopping mall in 1967. Cathy also was known for his efforts to help youth. In 1984 he created the WinShape Foundation to help "shape winners" through youth support programs and scholarships. He also created a long-term program for foster children that has foster care homes in Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee and Brazil. His sympathy for children was demonstrated in August 2008 when he worked out a deal with the parents of two girls who were accused of causing $30,000 in damage to a home he owned in New Smyrna Beach, Florida. The girls were banned from watching TV and playing video games. They also had to write "I will not vandalize other people's property" 1,000 times. He told the Daytona Beach News-Journal that he didn't want to have them prosecuted and left with a criminal record. As the author of several books, his 2007 book "How Did You Do It, Truett?" outlined his strategy for success that included setting priorities, being courteous, cautiously expanding a business and not being burdened with debt. "There's really no secret for success," he said then. "I hope it will open eyes for people. They don't have to follow my recipe but this is what works for me." Cathy is survived by his wife of 65 years, Jeannette McNeil Cathy; sons Dan T. and Don "Bubba" Cathy; daughter Trudy Cathy White; 19 grandchildren and 18 great-grandchildren, according to a company statement. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Russell CheyneScotland's First Minister Alex Salmond holds the referendum  white paper on independence during its launch in Glasgow, Scotland November 26, 2013.If you want to understand the stakes in the Sept. 18 referendum on Scottish independence, you have to remember that Alex Salmond, the country’s first minister, is famous for his devotion to horse racing and his gambling tips. On this occasion, he has come up with an accumulator bet. Salmond needs to win four high-risk wagers to lead Scotland to independence and deliver on the prosperity he claims will come from separating from the U.K. The danger for the people of Scotland is that they could find themselves in a weak state that is dependent on a U.K. that feels it owes them nothing. Here are the four bets: 1) That Salmond can persuade a majority of Scotland’s population to vote for independence on Sept. 18. 2) That an independent Scotland can keep the British pound. 3) That Scotland can leave the U.K. but stay in the EU. 4) That Scotland can leave the U.K. but remain in NATO on its own terms. Bet number 1: Salmond wants a majority to vote “Yes” to independence on Sept. 18. With the pro-independence “Yes” campaign leading in the latest poll, Salmond’s gamble looks good. Until now the complacent consensus among British politicians had been that the “Yes” campaign would lose because it was trailing in almost every opinion poll since May 2011.  However, as Salmond knows, British opinion pollsters can get elections wrong. The opinion polls failed to predict that Salmond’s Scottish National Party (SNP) would win a majority in the 2011 Scottish parliament elections. The SNP’s unexpectedly large victory, a product of its efficient grass roots organization, paved the way for the Sept. 18 referendum. In addition to the SNP party machine, Salmond is using the Scottish government to propagandize for independence. He has built an efficient media machine that smears his opponents, including on one occasion a single mother with a child suffering from cerebral palsy. The bloated Scottish government payroll plays in the nationalists’ favor, and Scottish ministers have warned businesses not to oppose independence. Some local pro-independence groups have resorted to intimidation, with anti-English extremists joining in. The anti-independence “No Thanks” campaign, by contrast, has no government resources at its disposal. Those advocating to keep Scotland in the U.K. have cobbled together an organization with no track record of success. The leader of “No Thanks,” Alistair Darling, is a Labour politician best known for being Britain’s finance minister during the 2008 financial crisis. REUTERS/Russell CheyneThe leader of Britain's opposition Labour Party, Ed Miliband, arrives to speak and campaign ahead of the Scottish vote for independence from the United Kingdom, in Blantyre, Scotland, on Thursday.Bet number 2: Salmond wants Scotland to separate from the U.K. but keep the British pound as its currency. The notion that Scotland could become independent but still use the pound is bizarre. The only independent countries that function with somebody else’s currency, like El Salvador, have failed economies. As importantly, the British government and opposition say they will not share the pound with an independent Scotland. Salmond’s response is that they are bluffing. He says Scotland actually owns pound: “it’s our pound and we’re keeping it.” What is really happening here is that Salmond is preparing the way for a Scottish currency. Salmond has hinted as much by saying that using the pound is “transitional,” although without specifying to what. Having agitated for Scottish independence for over 30 years, and having studied the experience of other countries, Salmond has seen that most independent states issue their own money. A Scottish currency will also provide his government with control over monetary policy and will make running the budget easier. Indeed, Salmond has actually made a strong argument for a Scottish currency. In an important speech in March 2014, Salmond said that “London is the dark star of the economy, inexorably sucking in resources, people and energy.” He’s right. Scotland is just 7.7% of the U.K. economy, while London accounts for 22.4% (England as a whole is 84.8% of the total). The London economy, with its exorbitant property prices and high wages, exerts greater influence over interest rates and the exchange rate than Scotland. Why then would Scotland want to use the currency of the “dark star”? REUTERS/Russell CheyneBritain's Queen Elizabeth, center, and Prince Charles, right, watch the sack race at the annual Braemar Highland Gathering in Braemar, Scotland, on Saturday.Bet number 3: Salmond wants Scotland to leave the U.K. but stay in the EU (which the U.K. joined in 1973). Numerous European politicians have said Scotland will have to apply to join the EU if it splits from the U.K. No EU state wants to set a precedent that could lead to its own break up. Again, Salmond says they are bluffing. The problem is that the nationalist attitude to the EU is malleable. Salmond conveniently forgets that in 1975 the SNP campaigned to take the U.K. out of the EU’s predecessor, the European Economic Community. The SNP has consistently argued that the British government in London routinely ignores Scotland’s needs, hence the need for independence. Yet an independent Scotland will supposedly be an EU member on precisely the terms that the British government has negotiated. If this bet goes wrong, Scotland may have to leave the EU and negotiate to join from the outside. That would give the U.K. government tremendous influence in negotiations over using the pound and military bases in Scotland, to name just two issues. REUTERS/David MoirBritain's Queen Elizabeth walks past soldiers from the Royal Regiment of Scotland, during the Ceremony Of The Keys at Holyrood Palace in Edinburgh, Scotland, on July 2, 2012.Bet number 4: Salmond wants an independent Scotland to keep Britain’s membership of NATO, but with special provisions. In Scottish nationalist speak this will involve a “transition from being a NATO member as part of the U.K. to becoming an independent member of the alliance.”   The SNP, which opposed NATO membership until 2012, says that Scotland will be part of the Atlantic alliance on two conditions. The first is that nuclear weapons leave the country — the U.K.’s nuclear submarines and their weapons are based in Scotland and U.S. nuclear-armed vessels visit the country. The second is that an independent Scotland would “only take part in U.N. sanctioned operations.” Both conditions are impossible for NATO, which is an explicitly nuclear alliance whose only combat operation, in Kosovo in 1999, was not U.N. sanctioned. Salmond knows this because he publicly denounced the Kosovo war as “an action of dubious legality, but above all one of unpardonable folly.” In practice, in NATO or neutral (the more likely outcome), an independent Scotland would have security forces so weak that it would depend on the U.K. The nationalists claim that the Scottish armed forces would be small but capable, like those of the Nordic members of NATO, with defense assets claimed from current U.K. forces. This assumes an agreement on the division of U.K. assets and liabilities — an unlikely prospect given the nationalists’ determination to expel the U.K. nuclear deterrent. The nationalists’ defense plans also ignore the fact that NATO’s Nordic members shelter under the U.S.-U.K.-French nuclear deterrent. The Nordic states, which feel particularly threatened by a resurgent Russia, rely on the U.S. and other NATO allies for many aspects of security, particularly intelligence and technology. Alex Salmond may soon crown his 32-year political career by splitting Scotland from the U.K., dividing mainland Britain for the first time in over 300 years. His accumulator bet is that Scotland can split from the U.K. but retain all the benefits of being in the U.K. These odds may be too great even for Salmond. Instead, the result could be a separate Scotland independent largely in name, but in practice dependent on a resentful U.K. Andrew Apostolou is a writer on international affairs based in Washington D.C. FREE AppDownload
That's a really bad European investor sentiment reading from Sentix. The weak economy, combined with the crisis in Ukraine, is taking a clear toll on the outlook of the region. The consensus reading was 1.4 in August, down from 2.7 last month. Instead, sentiment plunged all the way to -9.8. Here's a chart from Pantheon Economics: Pantheon   FREE AppDownload
Yahoo Finance The weekend is over, and the pound is tanking. The above chart shows the British currency starting the week with a swan dive, following the shocking news over the weekend that the Scottish Independence movement was leading in the polls (at least, according to one poll). The pound fell early in late Sunday trading, and it continued to be hammered early Monday. While the vote (on Sept. 18) has been expected to be close for some time, very few gave the pro-Independence YES side much of a chance of actually winning. That's now officially changed, and it now looks like a coin-toss as to whether Scotland will leave Great Britain and become an independent nation. It's unclear what economic ramifications there will be if Scotland does go, but, it's a safe bet that it won't be smooth, and so traders are dumping the pound right now, as a show of concern. Meanwhile, the latest weakness in the pound is part of an accelerating trend, as the YES campaign has steadily risen in the polls in recent weeks.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Keith Bedford HONG KONG (Reuters) - Carlyle Group &lt;cg.o&gt;, one of the world's largest private equity firms, said on Monday it has closed its fourth Asia fund at $3.9 billion, the second-largest private equity fund ever raised for Asia investments. The new fund adds to an estimated record $140 billion of uninvested capital, or dry powder, that private equity firms have raised for the region, prompting worries that there is too much money chasing too few deals. But Carlyle's co-head of Asia buyouts, X.D. Yang, dismissed those concerns. "The regional economy has become much, much bigger. Ten years ago a $500 million equity investment was huge, but today it's a medium-sized deal," Yang told Reuters in an interview. "The companies are getting bigger, the economies are getting bigger and the private equity funds and deals are getting bigger," he added. Carlyle Asia Partners IV, which will invest in deals in Asia excluding Japan, is 53 percent larger than the firm's previous fund for the region, and exceeded its target of $3.5 billion. It is second only to KKR &amp; Co's &lt;kkr.n&gt; $6 billion Asia fund raised last year, and has already invested $700 million in equity in security systems firm ADT Korea. By comparison, since the close of KKR's fund in July last year, KKR has announced eight deals which if completed would be worth around $2 billion in equity. Carlyle is also raising funds for a separate fund to invest in Japan, aiming to gather as much as $1 billion, investors with knowledge of the plans have told Reuters.   FEES CUT The fundraising for Carlyle's fourth Asia fund was not easy, with KKR's record fund as well as other rivals providing stiff competition for capital. Like others in the industry, Carlyle cut its fees and brought in high net worth investors to help with the fund-raising. Investors with direct knowledge of the matter said Carlyle reduced its management fees to 1.5 percent from the usual 2 percent. It also hired Goldman Sachs &lt;gs.n&gt; to raise money from the bank's private wealth clients, at a fee of 3 percent of capital raised. They declined to be identified as Carlyle has not made the details public. Carlyle declined to comment on aspects of its fundraising. A representative for Goldman Sachs was not immediately available for comment. Yang said many of Carlyle's investments over the next five to seven years would be in companies likely to benefit from strong economic growth in the region. He believes restructurings of China's state-owned enterprises, like the one being conducted at oil giant Sinopec Corp &lt;0386.HK&gt;, as well as growth in the country's emerging technology companies offer opportunities for big ticket deals. "Look at the new economy in China, and you see the scale of companies like Alibaba [IPO-BABA.N]. That's a sector where you could see someone make a $500 million investment at the right time, and maybe achieve a $5 billion profit," he said. Yang, who joined Carlyle in 2001 after stints at Merrill and Goldman, is the man behind the firm's signature Asia deal, an investment in China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co Ltd &lt;601601.SS&gt; (CPIC). It gave Carlyle its biggest dollar profit on an investment globally, with the private equity firm garnering a total profit of over $4 billion - five times the amount it invested between 2005 and 2007 for a 17 percent stake.   (Reporting by Stephen Aldred; Editing by Edwina Gibbs) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo of Russia's top crude producer Rosneft in Moscow.Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev said that the state oil champion Rosneft, in need of funds to service its huge debt, may receive 1.5 trillion roubles ($40.6 billion) from state coffers over time, Vedomosti newspaper said on Monday. Last month, a government source said that the company's head Igor Sechin had asked for 1.5 trillion roubles from the National Wealth Fund, one of Russia's sovereign wealth funds, to help the company weather western sanctions against Moscow for its policy on Ukraine. An anonymous official has called Sechin's plan "horrible," and another government source has told Vedomosti last month that Medvedev was unlikely to back it. However, the prime minister told the newspaper that Rosneft, which accounts for 40 percent of Russian oil output, may still receive the help. "This figure only looks imposing, but everything doesn't have to be done in one year. I recently held a meeting on Rosneft’s investment program: the company needs to maintain its production levels, because Rosneft is a major source of tax revenue," he said. "As such, we should help it maintain its level of investment. We are now considering specific variables and types of support." The company needs to repay 440 billion roubles ($12 billion) by year-end and another 626 billion roubles ($17 billion) next year, according to its latest presentation, after it borrowed heavily to finance last year's $55 billion acquisition of Anglo-Russian oil firm TNK-BP. Some Russian companies, which were hit by the Western sanctions, including VTB &lt;vtbr.mm&gt; bank, have already received government approval for an access to the fund's money. Medvedev said that the government's help for Rosneft, one of the biggest taxpayers in Russia, would be beneficial for the state over time. "I have no doubts about the company's performance in the medium to long term. The investment will certainly pay off," he told Vedomosti. (Reporting by Vladimir Soldatkin; Editing by Lidia Kelly and Louise Heavens) FREE AppDownload
REUTERSA worker wields a hammer at a demolition site in front of new residential buildings in Hefei, Anhui province, October 19, 2013.After a decade of riding on the back of China with little concern about falling off, recent data has many economists worried that the ride is about to get much bumpier. It’s perhaps not surprising that China is important not just to Australia’s economy, but the whole world’s. But just how important it has become is surprising. Back at the start of this century the Chinese economy was around 11% the size of the US; now it is nearly 60% the size of the US. But despite that massive growth, it wasn’t until 2007 that China became more important than the US to world economic growth. Before 2007, the US was easily the biggest contributor to the growth of the world’s economy. In 2004, for example, the world economy grew by 12.8% (nominal terms) to which the US contributed two percentage points. By way of context, the UK and Japan that year contributed 0.9 percentage points, France 0.7 and Germany 0.8. China also contributed 0.8 percentage points. In 2007, the world’s GDP grew by a similar 12.7%, but this time China was the biggest contributor with 1.6 percentage points worth, and the US contributing just 1.2. And since then, China has remained the biggest driver of the world’s economic growth: To put it in even more stark terms, from 2007 to 2013, the world’s economy grew by 31% and China contributed nearly a third of that, with 10.1 percentage points worth. Plucky little Australia with 1 percentage point chipped in for 3.2% of the world’s growth in the period – not bad given that we only account for around 2% of the size of world’s economy: So clearly, China is important, and not just to Australia. Indeed, the RBA governor, Glenn Stevens, last week noted that China is the first or second biggest trading partner for “nearly 50 economies, including the United States, European Union, Japan, Russia and Canada”. So it is not surprising that economists around the world are looking anxiously towards Beijing for signs of either economic health or concern. And recently, signs of concern are more prevalent. Firstly, we need some context – no one expects China to grow at the speed it did from 2002 to 2010: The Chinese government doesn’t even want growth that fast; instead it wants a more steady, and hopefully sustainable growth of around 7.5% rather than the 10% plus annual growth it averaged from 2002 to 2010. But the concern is whether or not China can achieve even this level of growth, or whether a fall is about to occur. Among the signs we can look at that have the biggest impact on Australia are Chinese manufacturing and construction – the better they are performing the more they will demand all that metal we have lying under our ground. The latest Chinese manufacturing purchasing managers index has been good, if not spectacular. The latest measure came in at 51.1, a slight fall from the previous month’s 51.7. A score above 50 means manufacturing is generally expanding; below means it is contracting: Similarly, China’s annual growth of industrial output, while well below pre-GFC growth of over 14%, is steady at around 9%: So where does the concern come from? Housing. In the past few months there have been a number of worrying signs that the booming Chinese real estate market is about to burst. For example, the Wall Street Journal recently reported a Chinese study that found in 2013 22.4% of houses in China’s urban areas were vacant – up from 20.6% in 2011. This suggests a fairly serious glut of houses in China. And when there is an over-supply of something, the price for that item inevitably falls. In July, monthly residential house prices rose in only six of the 70 major Chinese cities. If we look at the growth of residential housing prices across five of the major Chinese cities, the drop off in prices is clear to see: The decline has also occurred in commercial buildings, with the growth of sales in commercial buildings for the first seven months of this year 8.4% below what was achieved last year: Similarly, the growth rate of investment in real estate development has dropped off. This time last year it was growing at around 19% year on year; now it is down to 13.7%. For Australia, the real impact of this is in the price of our exports – especially iron ore. If you aren’t building as many buildings as you used to, you don’t need as much steel. The problem, of course, is that on the back of a decade of mining investment, we now have a large supply of iron ore to export. And when there is a large increase in supply of a good without a similar large increase in demand, the price of that good falls – and that is exactly what has happened to iron ore prices: Since January 2013 iron ore prices have fallen 43% in US dollars, and 48% in Australian dollars. Since just December last year, the price has fallen 37% from US$135 a tonne to US$85.70 a tonne – the lowest since September 2009. This has a number of effects. Firstly it makes it tougher for our mining companies to make a profit. Analysts suggest that for BHP to break even they need a price of US$51 a tonne. And it has been reported that they are about to increase exports from 225 million tonnes to 290mt. But while they’ll continue to make a profit, it’s worth noting that if the price of iron ore is at the December price of US$135 a tonne exporting 225mt would make BHP roughly $18.9bn in profit; but if they exported 290mt at $US85 a tonne, they’re looking like only making a profit of around $9.86bn. So yes, they’re making a profit – but less than they would have expected 12 months or even just six months ago. And that hits our tax revenues. It means even if the volume of exports increase, the amount of income being generated may not – as occurred in the June quarter: The volume of exports increased 1.3% in the June quarter, but the actual dollar amount of exports fell 0.6%. And so we keep looking to China, hoping their real estate market will hold up, and that their demand for our exports will continue to grow strongly. But a collapse in the Chinese market would also have another sting – if Chinese real estate investors can’t achieve growth in their own markets they will start looking in even greater numbers for value elsewhere – places like New York, Toronto ... and Sydney. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFrankfurt (AFP) - The outlook for the German economy, Europe's biggest, brightened on Monday when data showed the country's trade surplus hit a new record in July on the back of booming exports.  After allowance for seasonal blips, Germany exported goods worth a total of 98.2 billion euros ($127 billion) in July, 4.7 percent more than in June, the federal statistics office Destatis said in a statement. Imports, on the other hand, shrank by 1.8 percent to 76.1 billion euros.  That meant the seasonally adjusted trade surplus -- the balance between imports and exports -- increased to 22.2 billion euros in July from 16.4 billion euros in June.  In unadjusted terms, the trade surplus jumped to a record 23.4 billion euros in July, Destatis said. A trade surplus is one of the factors of growth and wealth creation for an economy. Exports to the European Union were up 9.6 percent and exports to the 18-member eurozone climbed by 6.2 percent, while exports to countries outside Europe soared by 15.9 percent, the data showed.  Following better-than-expected industrial output and orders data last week, analysts said the trade figures augured well for the German economy in the third quarter.  "All in all, data in July indicate that the German economy had a very positive start into the third quarter," said Natixis economist Johannes Gareis. "Thus, although it is early days, the data suggest that Germany will refire its engine in the third quarter and avert a technical recession," he said. In the second quarter, German gross domestic product (GDP) had contracted by 0.2 percent.  BayernLB economist Johannes Mayr said that any weakness in exports to Russia and Ukraine had been more than offset by exports to other countries.  "The pick-up in the US economy will have also played a role," Mayr said.    FREE AppDownload
Dave Lewis, the new CEO of Tesco, has a problem: What to do about all the unpaid overtime Tesco's 500,000 staff are working. "The pressure and stress of having to do extra unpaid hours has killed morale and colleagues have had enough of working for free," one Tesco worker tells Business Insider. "Personally I have a contract for 37 hours per week but end up doing a minimum of 65 hours." Business Insider recently invited workers at Tesco, Britain's largest supermarket chain, to tell us how they would advise Lewis on fixing the ailing grocery giant. We received a bunch of emails from Tesco staffers. Six of them mentioned, without being prompted on the issue, that they or their staffers were required to work unpaid overtime. Tesco tells Business Insider that the company is committed to paying its workers properly, and staffers who feel they have not been paid for hours worked should talk to their personnel manager. "General assistants" at Tesco get £7.39 per hour. A Tesco spokesperson said: "We’re committed to being a great employer, ensuring colleagues are paid correctly is very important to us. Occasionally issues do arise and we aim to resolve these as quickly as possible. Our colleagues can always approach their personnel manager to discuss any concerns they may have." We cannot say that Tesco systematically underpays its workers. We have only anecdotal evidence: The staffers who emailed us all work for different Tesco sites in different parts of the country. Although this is obviously not a random sampling — these are people complaining about Tesco, after all — it struck us as an amazing coincidence that six different people at six different stores would all mention that they worked overtime and didn't get paid for it. And while you can write these sources off as disgruntled employees, the tone of their emails was the opposite: They loved working for Tesco, they've worked for Tesco for years, and they want to see the No.1 grocery brand take back its throne of excellence. They don't want to leave Tesco — but they do object to working for Tesco for free. This is a company with annual revenues of £71 billion ($121 billion) after all. Lewis, who started his new job earlier this month, had invited Tesco's 500,000 employees to tell him directly via email what they thought he should do to turn Tesco around. Sales fell 4% through Aug. 17, 2014, and Tesco has revised downward its profit projection for the year. Tesco also cut its dividend, and the stock has fallen 32% in the last year. REUTERS/Paul Hackett Tesco is Britain's largest non-government employer.As a result, Lewis is likely considering cutting costs and laying off workers at Tesco in order to get profits rising again. He did that at Unilever, his previous employer, where he cut costs by 40% in part by laying off 300 people. That would be a serious issue, because Tesco is both Britain's largest non-government employer, and Europe's largest company employer. Redundancies at Tesco would thus have to number in the thousands to make a difference. Then there is the question of what effect cutting staff would have on the overtime situation at Tesco. Without concomitant store closures, a reduction in staff could mean the remaining staff might be asked to work longer hours, exacerbating any existing unpaid overtime problem. "One of the long term sick managers I mentioned is off sick from collapsing in the store and being taken away in an ambulance after been consistently being made to stay 3-4 hours after a 9 hour night shift (22:00 - 07:00)," A Tesco worker told Business Insider. "Also it's a common occurrence for managers to work 12- 13 hour days but we are contracted for '36 hours and any additional hours that are reasonably required to fulfill your role,' so it's a moot point." Worse, if unpaid overtime was widespread at Tesco, and Lewis chose to do the right thing and award staffers their unpaid back pay, that would make Tesco's wage bill go up — and put further downward pressure on profits. So what should Lewis do? Our sources inside Tesco were almost unanimous on this point: They believe Lewis should increase the number of workers per store. This, obviously, would reduce Tesco's profits further in the short-term. But our sources say it might increase revenues in the long term, too, by allowing Tesco workers to properly serve their customers. "It is almost impossible to deliver the level of service that we would like," A Tesco staffer who works for the delivery service tells us. "Everything Tesco does seems to be designed to piss the customers off rather than make them stay with us." Another — addressing Lewis — said, "Please do not reduce staff anymore. We cannot cope with tasks and have to do extra hours to complete these most of the time unpaid, especially the team leaders, but staff do this as well, we have to support more than one area especially checkouts so this affects our own department, and especially the service of customers which we know is important." As customers, we know that staff help is crucial in generating sales. How many times have you walked out of a store frustrated because you could not find a staffer to help you locate an item? What is not clear is whether spending more on staff and wages also generates more sales. To answer that question, Lewis might want to look at one of his competitors (which also has the same last name as him), John Lewis. The John Lewis department store group also owns Waitrose, an upscale supermarket which has taken market share from Tesco. The main difference between John Lewis and Tesco is that John Lewis is a partnership of its own workers, a unique experiment in industrial democracy. All 91,000 John Lewis workers own an equal share of the company's profits. They are literally working for themselves. (In the U.S., Tesco's Lewis might also want to examine Costco, the discount chain that famously pays its workers more than its rivals.) Anyone who shops at John Lewis knows you get the best service. It's impossible to walk through one of those stores without being ambushed by staff who want to help you. Staffing is not an issue. Last year, revenues at John Lewis were £10.2 billion, up 6.6%. (Sales at Waitrose specifically were up a similar portion, 6% to £6.1 billion.) Note that John Lewis' sales are going up while Tesco's are sinking. Worked for Tesco for 11 years: This happens constantly, staff are asked to work to support sickness / holidays for time back but this proves difficult as staff are so thin on the ground it's hard to do without another. Staff find they're working a full shift in one go and taking an hour back here &amp; there, especially night shift. Overtime is a rare thing &amp; has been for quite some time. Staff work through breaks just to try &amp; catch up. We have had at least 6 long serving staff members, most full time, leave this year alone &amp; not had their hours replaced. Tesco Express worker: Queues are getting worse because of no staff and the moral is at it's lowest and the store availability getting worse cause no one to fill the shelves. The store manager literally works every day of the week just to keep on top of all the paper work and store running! none of our management team get there breaks ever!! And end up working 12 hour shifts but only paid 7.5!! Non-food trading manager at a Tesco Extra: We are given budgeted hours by the centre which tells us how many hours we need to deliver a great customer experience but are never allowed to use the hours. Most of my departments are horrendously under contracted and when this is brought up my Store Manager simply refuses to do anything about it because, he claims, his hands are tied! The pressure and stress of having to do extra unpaid hours has killed morale and colleagues have had enough of working for free. Personally I have a contract for 37 hrs per week but end up doing a minimum of 65 hours. Worker at a Tesco.com store in the south of England: I work with a great bunch of drivers, but there are so many restrictions being placed on us that it is almost impossible to deliver the level of service that we would like. Everything Tesco does seems to be designed to piss the customers off rather than make them stay with us. We have too few pickers and too few drivers, and have done since the start of the year. The rest of us are made to feel guilty about not delivering all the shopping but it is their fault for not giving us enough staff. We are all expected to work 6 or 7 days a week and get told off if we complain. We have no rights any more and are all getting so fed up with it. Worked for Tesco for 25 years: Please do not reduce staff anymore. We cannot cope with tasks and have to do extra hours to complete these most of the time unpaid, especially the team leaders, but staff do this as well, we have to support more than one area especially checkouts so this affects our own department, and especially the service of customers which we know is important. Tesco manager for eight years: One of the long term sick managers I mentioned is off sick from collapsing in store and being taken away in an ambulance after been consistently being made to stay 3-4 hours after a 9 hour night shift (22:00 - 07:00). Also it's a common occurrence for managers to work 12- 13 hour days but we are contracted for "36 hours and any additional hours they are reasonably required to fulfill your role" so it's a moot point. We're overpaid colleagues unfortunately as we've no staff to actually manage. FREE AppDownload
ReutersScotland First Minister Alex Salmond holds up "Aye" branded cakes during his visit to Brownings Bakers in Kilmarnock, Scotland, on Wednesday. Welcome back from the weekend! Here's what people will chatting about on Monday. 1. Iraqi forces say they have prevented Islamic State militants from seizing control of the Haditha Dam on the Euphrates after the U.S. launched new airstrikes in the region on Sunday.  2. A cease-fire agreement between Ukraine and Russia broke down on Sunday as shots were fired in the city of Mariupol, leaving at least one woman dead.  3. The Scottish Independence movement gained a big boost over the weekend, with one poll showing the Yes vote taking the lead for the first time.  4. A small meteorite struck Nicaragua's capital Saturday night, creating a 16-foot-deep crater near a city airport.  5. Obama is expected to lay out a strategy to take on the extremist group ISIS in a speech on Wednesday.  6. Scientists said lab monkeys treated with an Ebola vaccine remained immune for up to 10 months.  7. Boeing and budget airline Ryanair are expected to make a major announcement Monday morning. Many speculate it will be about a massive jet order.  8. Apple is expected to unveil the iPhone 6 on Tuesday! 9. Serena Williams won her sixth U.S. Open and 18th Grand Slam title after beating Caroline Wozniacki on Sunday.  10. Harvard University received a record donation of $350 million from the Morningside Foundation. The gift will support research in public health.  And finally... Look toward the sky Monday night— there's going to be a full harvest moon.  FREE AppDownload
