ReutersElections are underway in India, and the results are due May 16. Many expect opposition leader Narendra Modi to become India's next prime minister, and there's hope he could help revive economic growth in India, which has been languishing. Modi has been credited with driving Gujarat's economic growth since he took the helm as chief minister of the northwest Indian state in 2001. Modinomics: The Gujarat Story In a report published last September, Vijay K. Gaba at InvesTrekk wrote that "India is struggling with the limitations of the Nehruvian model of economic development that we have followed since independence."  He described the current model as one that generally calls for a large role of the private sector, but with "active state intervention during extremities of business cycle and argues against higher savings in both private and public sector." Modinomics, on the other hand, supports a free market with minimal state intervention. David Pilling at the Financial Times also recently wrote of Modi's getting-things-done leadership style. "Part of Mr Modi’s attraction is that, by sheer force of will, he may be able to override some of the checks and balances of Indian democracy and introduce some of the clear-headedness of growth-driven China," he wrote. Gujarat's real GDP has climbed 10.3% year-over-year between fiscal year (FY) 2003 and FY12, that's 2.4 percentage points above India's real GDP growth in the same period, Christopher Wood at CLSA pointed out in a note late last year. Modi's candidacy is "about marketing the impressive track record in Gujarat over a 12-year period of achieving broad-based growth across the agricultural, manufacturing and service sectors since Modi assumed office," Wood writes.  "Modi’s best chance of winning convincingly is if he can tap into 'big data' — helped by the intelligent use of social media — like the pro-growth aspirations of an estimated 149m young voters who will be voting for the first time in next year’s general election, representing about 20% of the electorate." Last year, Goldman Sachs put out a note titled "Modi-fying our view: raise India to Marketweight." Timothy Moe, author of the note, cited six key reasons for this, the top being, "optimism over political change, led by BJP’s prime ministerial candidate Mr. Modi, is dominating economic concerns," sparking outrage in India. Is It All Just Hype? But some legitimately wonder if Modinomics will work for the rest of India and if Modi has been too generous in slathering on this self-praise. The Guardian and Quartz took a long look at Gujarat's economy in the years before Modi came to power and found that Gujarat was doing well in the two prior decades. And certain indicators, such as foreign direct investment, show that Gujarat lags behind other states. There are also those who argue that placing the blame of recent lackluster growth squarely on the shoulders of the central government is too simplistic. "The belief in certain quarters is that as long as the next government were to go all out at de-bottle-necking projects, sentiment would surge and this would spark an investment revival in the economy," writes Toshi Jain at JPMorgan. But he thinks this is an "overly-simplistic read on the situation" because many stalled projects have more to do with various state governments than the central government. Perhaps then, a Modi government would also hit the same roadblocks. AP Photo/Manish SwarupModi Can't Shake His Past There is, of course, one thing that Modi has never been able to dodge: questions surrounding his role in the deadly Gujarat riots of 2002, in which more than 1,000 people were killed, women were raped, and thousands became displaced. Modi's detractors point to his ties to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), a Hindu supremacist group. Nomura's Alastair Newton points out that during a Feb. 23 rally in Assam, Modi called for Hindu migrants from Bangladesh to be assimilated back into India. He said non-Hindus should be sent back to their home nations. Modi's rhetoric has raised concerns about what this could mean for neighborhood politics.  Indian publication LiveMint pointed to Modi's decision to contest the seat in the holy city of Varanasi as a sign that he hasn't abandoned his Hindu supremacist ideology:  "It is widely expected that Modi’s nomination from Varanasi will positively affect the outcome for the BJP in a number of other seats in Eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar which are electorally important as together the two states send 120 lawmakers to the Lok Sabha. Further, the choice of Varanasi is also symbolic in nature which indicates that the party may not have completely abandoned the Hindutva ideology." It's A Guessing Game For now, the polls are calling for a BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) and NDA (National Democratic Alliance) coalition winning 230 to 240 seats and to be headed by Narendra Modi. But Indian polls have been woefully wrong in the past.  In 2004, the polls grossly overestimated the seats the incumbent would win, and the Sensex crashed 11% the day after, and the rupee lost 3%. In 2009, the polls underestimated the seats the incumbent would win and the following day stocks went on a tear and the rupee surged 4%. The bottom line, however, is that whichever party comes to power, it has a long road to reviving economic growth. Morgan Stanley's Ridham Desai thinks the new government needs to push through five key reforms: drive wage growth in line with productivity, cut the fiscal deficit, improve the business environment, rethink India's urbanization policy, and address structural rigidities in the energy and mining sectors. If the rise of what's been called India's third front — a string of regional parties — does end with a messy coalition, the Indian economy could continue to sputter for another five years. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David LohThe weekend is over and Asian markets are lower. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX200 is down 0.4% and Japan's Nikkei is down 0.5%. The euro rose against the yen, after European Central Bank president Mario Draghi said further euro appreciation would trigger stimulus. The stronger yen seems to be weighing on Japanese stocks. Robert Savage at Track Research pointed out they key statement from Draghi in Washington. "The strengthening of the exchange rate would require, to make our monetary policy stance to remain equally accommodative, it would require further monetary policy accommodation."  Investors are also jittery over increasing in tensions between Russia and the Ukraine after, Ukraine sent forces to Slaviansk to oust pro-Russian rebels. Meanwhile, U.S. futures are modestly lower. The S&amp;P and the NASDAQ are off 0.1%. U.S. stocks took a beating on Thursday and Friday. This is however a big week, with loads of Chinese data, including Q1 GDP out on Tuesday. Meanwhile, 54 S&amp;P 500 companies are reporting earnings this week. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachA man uses his mobile phone to take a picture of the euro sculpture outside the head quarters of the European Central Bank (ECB) in Frankfurt, November 5, 2013. The ECB council will on Thursday and will decide whether they change the interest rates or not. Almost every month, prior to the ECB monetary policy meetings, people play the guessing game of whether the ECB will do more easing in some manner. And every month the answer seems to be no. But there are good reasons why the ECB might want to engage in further monetary stimulus: The economies in the Eurozone remain quite weak, some countries are in outright deflation, and the Euro is uncomfortably high, which makes exports expensive. So the waiting game for more action continues. And this weekend in Washington DC, ECB executive board member Benoît Cœuré gave a speech outlining what the ECB might do: The key idea is that the ECB might engage in its own QE program if conditions warrant. Thank you very much for inviting me to open this session on whether central banks should continue to target longer-term bond yields in normal times. My first instinct when presented with this question was to provide a rhetorical answer and say that to continue targeting long-term bond yields one has first to have started doing it. And indeed, the ECB has so far only intervened in long-term bond markets, such as the covered bond market, to restore monetary policy transmission in malfunctioning market segments and help enforcing a given monetary policy stance. We have not so far resorted to a policy of targeted asset purchases that aim to alter the monetary policy stance – what is universally, if in my view inaccurately, referred to as quantitative easing. On second thoughts, however, this would be the wrong way to reply. It would not only be wrong because we have recently made clear that asset purchases are an instrument that we are ready to use if we deem necessary. It would also be the wrong answer because the question of whether central banks should target longer-term bond yields provides a good focal point to reflect on what monetary policy is trying to achieve in the first place. In other words, instruments are just the tail that wags the dog. As for what specifically the ECB might do on the asset purchase front, he says (see the bolded part at the bottom) that asset purchases could be done at the longer-part of the curve. First, at its meeting last week the Governing Council confirmed our baseline scenario – that is, a prolonged period of low inflation followed by a gradual rise in inflation rates towards 2%. Further monetary easing is therefore not excluded, but remains contingent on outcomes. Second, if such easing is called for, the Governing Council is unanimous in its commitment to use also unconventional instruments within its mandate. The question we face is whether asset purchases would be the appropriate unconventional measure . And if we deem that asset purchases would be appropriate, the question then becomes how we could implement such a policy in way that is useful and that complies with our mandate. This means, among other things, ensuring that any such purchases comply with the Treaty, keeping in mind that Article 18 of the ESCB Statute allows the ECB and national central banks to operate in the financial markets by buying and selling outright claims and marketable instruments. It also means guarding against operations that unduly distort market allocations or worse, that would have intended distributive effects. And it means designing a programme that is effective given the financial structure of the euro area – where, for instance, bank-based intermediation is pre-dominant and wealth effects through equity and real estate prices are less important transmission channels than, say, in the US. These considerations in turn imply thinking in terms of the three forms of interest rate differentiation that I described above. First, vertical differentiation – the relevant maturities at which asset purchases should take place. In practice, purchases would naturally be linked to the interest rate maturities that are most important for firms’ and households’ investment and consumption decisions. In the euro area, this tends to be the intermediate to longer part of the yield curve. Read the full speech here. Not surprisingly, the Euro is slipping on the new, as it seems that ECB action might come sooner. FREE AppDownload
April 15 is right around the corner, and many last-minute filers are getting ready to finish up their tax returns for 2013.  Whether you filed your taxes months ago or are just getting around to finishing your return, millions of Americans saw their 2013 tax bills go up. The fiscal-cliff deal that Congress hammered out at the beginning of 2013 seems like ancient history, but it's only now having an impact on the tax returns that are due this Tuesday. The deal prevented what could have been a much more extensive rise in taxes for every taxpayer in the nation. Although the compromise extended many of the tax cuts that had been slated to expire, it still allowed rates to rise in a number of critical areas. Higher payroll taxesUnder the deal, nearly every wage-earner saw a rise in the taxes that are taken directly out of workers' paychecks. The law allowed the payroll tax cut that had been available since 2011 to expire, and so workers started having an extra 2% of their paychecks go toward Social Security taxes as of the beginning of last year. For a typical household, the tax-rate rise amounted to about $1,000 in extra taxes. With the maximum Social Security wage base of $113,700 for 2013, however, the higher payroll taxes cost some joint-filing couples as much as $4,548. Higher taxes for high-income taxpayersLawmakers agreed to impose higher marginal tax rates for high-income earners, with the key income levels being $400,000 for single filers and $450,000 for joint returns. Above those levels, the current 35% rate went back to its previous level of 39.6%. On the investing front, the maximum tax rates on dividends and capital gains rose to 20%. However, those under the $400,000 or $450,000 limits continued to pay a maximum of just 15%, while previously existing 0% rates for those in the 10% and 15% ordinary income-tax brackets were extended.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Samsul Said A visitor looks at a screen showing weather updates at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport (KLIA) in Sepang March 18, 2014.David Kotok of Cumberland Advisors has a great note about the recent selloff. He starts by noting that a lot of clients right now are asking the simple question: "Are you concerned about the market?" His reply to that is of course, there is never a time when they're not concerned about the market. But beyond the weak price action lately (largely concentrated, he notes, in biotech, healthcare and tech) there are three big stories that concern him globally. They are: Ukraine, China, and oil. With markets, the evolution of events can be shaped by exogenous shocks, but effects are limited if such shocks are contained. One of those is Vladimir Putin’s flexing of Russian might in Ukraine. Another, and perhaps more important than Ukraine, is China’s slowing growth rate and the question of whether or not a meltdown is taking place in its credit system. China is the world's second largest economy behind the U.S. It is the world's largest goods producer so a slowing has vast implications for commodity pricing and for trade relations between China and other emerging markets countries. Let me quote a good friend and China expert, Michael Drury, Chief Economist of McVean Trading &amp; Investments, LLC. Michael wrote this in today's letter. " The most recent trade data suggest that the deceleration is much more pronounced than the consensus is apparently willing to consider. Moreover, the confidence that the government can solve any problem is so pervasive that it can only lead to disappointment." A third exogenous shock risk is the political unrest affecting the energy-related oil patch, including Libya, the Persian Gulf, and Nigeria. The external risk profile rises in this very important sector, and that elevated risk is reflected in an oil price that remains above $100. Of the three, China and oil are very well known. Ukraine is really the geopolitical wild card that nobody can assess well.  FREE AppDownload
It might be a logical time for the government to stop underwriting Americans’ personal loans. Yet the thrust of the bill to reform their status that is gaining some momentum in Congress is the opposite. For an example of how a post-crash crutch becomes a permanent financial distortion, look no further. Federal support for mortgages started as part of the New Deal, in 1934. The Federal National Mortgage Association, or "Fannie Mae", was made private in 1968, and was joined by a twin, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, "Freddie Mac", in 1970. They aimed to ease mortgage finance by buying loans from banks and pooling these into mortgage-backed securities (MBS) which could be sold to pension and mutual funds. They also held MBS directly, funded by issuing debt. The GSEs’ business was risky, and it rested on implicit state support. A 1996 study valued this subsidy at $6.9 billion. As the GSEs grew, the estimates did too. A 2003 Federal Reserve paper put the subsidy between $119 billion and $164 billion. Around 50% of this went straight to shareholders. But the GSEs were seen to serve the politically popular goal of expanding access to housing, so they enjoyed lower tax rates and lighter regulation than other financial firms. Leverage magnified short-term profits: with equity ratios of just 3.5% their returns on equity hit 20%. Contented congressmen and shareholders ignored the warnings of conservative think-tanks about this cushy arrangement. At first look a bill sponsored by Tim Johnson, a Democratic senator from South Dakota, and Mike Crapo, a Republican senator from Idaho, seems a reasonable reversal of past mistakes. It treats the GSEs’ infrastructure, the kit they use to pool loans into MBS, as a public utility. The logic is that, as with train lines or water pipes, there are huge fixed costs in building financial architecture. Rather than replicating it, it is better to let private firms access it. The model is akin to the treatment of Britain’s natural monopolies--gas, electricity and telephone systems--following Margaret Thatcher’s privatisations in the 1980s. Under the Johnson-Crapo plan, Fannie and Freddie would be replaced by the Federal Mortgage Insurance Corporation (FMIC). Banks would use its securitisation services, and be charged a fee to reflect the FMIC’s costs. Strong rules would tamp down risk. For each $100 of mortgage lending securitised by the FMIC, the banks that issued the mortgages would have to hold $10 of capital. The winners would be investors in MBS. The FMIC would completely neutralise risk for them. In the event of widespread defaults, the lenders’ 10% capital would offer an initial buffer, with the FMIC backstopping the remaining 90%. The plan is neatly packaged, but worrying. For one thing the transfer of ownership runs in the wrong direction: privately built plumbing is becoming public. Moreover, it is not clear that this utility is worth having: American home-ownership rates are decidedly mid-table. Borrowers are able to get 30-year fixed rates, but loans are not especially cheap. Studies show that unsubsidised mortgages are just a fraction dearer than the government-insured sort. And whereas the FMIC’s benefits are debatable, the costs are not. Stripping all risk from markets removes investors’ incentive to check on the lenders they are buying bundles of loans from. It is true that those making the loans will have "skin in the game". But shareholders have a poor record in constraining red-blooded CEOs. This is why most other countries are trying to get bondholders to provide more market oversight, not less. For those who would like to see the government out of the mortgage industry, there is a chink of light. The Johnson-Crapo bill deliberately backs away from the full privatisation under consideration in the House of Representatives and attempted in the Senate three years ago. But it includes a requirement, eight years in, to asses whether the FMIC could be privatised. The problem is that history, and Washington’s enduring fondness for state-supported lending, suggest reasons will be found to keep it in government hands. Click here to subscribe to The Economist.  FREE AppDownload
Maurice LacroixAnother week of luxury eye candy has concluded in Basel, Switzerland.  Baselworld, the enormous springtime watch and jewelry trade show, attracted thousands of visitors to ogle and buy the latest generation of luxury accessories. Ariel Adams, founder and editor of aBlogtoWatch — a website that covers all things timepieces — shared his top picks from the show, focusing on "buyability" over impressive or novel watches. You can see aBlogtoWatch's complete Baselworld 2014 coverage here.   FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsA juniper tree on an outcrop overlooking the Grand Canyon.The stock market has run into a rough patch. Since its March 5 high, the Nasdaq is down 8.2%. The S&amp;P 500 is down 3.1% during that same period. Investors can't help but wonder if we're in for a "Wile E. Coyote" moment. But no bull market is without a couple of pullbacks or corrections. And sometimes markets will spend lengthy periods doing the exact opposite of what a rational market "should" do. As you'll read below, there are reasons to remain optimistic about the economy and the markets. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Wall Street remains bullish on stocks in the near-term, and many see the recent selling as a buying opportunity.  But the longer-term story is a bit more cloudy. Citi's Matt King warns us of a "Wile E. Coyote" moment "where investors look down and conclude markets are treading on air." It's the scenario in investors come to believe that extraordinary monetary stimulus and loose credit standards aren't strengthening the fundamentals in a way that would justify today's high asset prices. From King: "Try a bit harder, and you could paint a bleaker picture still, in which investors may be coming perilously close to realizing that market levels owe everything to central bank stimulus and nothing to an improvement in underlying fundamentals. What if the much heralded “improvement in earnings to match the rerating in the market” fails to be delivered in coming weeks? How long till investors realize that extra stimulus in Japan might stem the Nikkei’s decline, but is unlikely to generate the economic recovery everyone is hoping for, no matter how large its size? And that the problem afflicting China – that the growth rates to which investors have become accustomed are utterly reliant on an unsustainable expansion of credit – is in fact a problem worldwide?" The good news is that King isn't so gloomy just yet. "And yet for all that we share those longer-term concerns, we still see nothing to suggest that such a “Wile E Coyote” moment is even close to being reached," he said. For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Mark Lennihan/APNobel Prize-winning, Sterling Professor of Economics at Yale University, Robert Shiller.Yale economist and Nobel laureate Robert Shiller is warning about the consequences of waiting too long to address rising income inequality. Shiller recently addressed the topic in an interview with Brookings/WSJ's David Wessel, in which he explained why we should consider raising taxes on the rich now. "[T]he nice thing is that when you talk to people about risks of the distant future, they are more idealistic and more sharing in their attitudes," he said. In a new piece for The New York Times Sunday, Shiller expands on the immediacy problem, and how to do it through taxes. "[W]hile income inequality would be much worse without our current tax system, what we have isn’t nearly enough," he writes. "It’s time — past time, actually — to tweak the system so that it can respond effectively if income inequality becomes more extreme." Shiller makes two points. First, he details how the problem will get worse the longer we wait to address it. If we wait until income inequality is much more severe, we will have a whole class of new superrich who will probably feel entitled to their wealth and will have the means to defend their interest. That’s already gone far enough. We shouldn’t let it become more extreme. Shiller cites a psychology study showing how to take advantage of people at their most generous: It is what the psychologists Yaacov Trope of New York University and Nira Liberman of Tel Aviv University called temporal construal theory. They showed that people are more idealistic and generous when dealing hypothetically with the distant future than they are about actions they need to take today. That’s why it pays to ask people to decide on measures to uphold egalitarian ideals when they don’t have to cough up the money immediately. So what can be done now that would be politically feasible? Shiller proposes indexing tax brackets to inequality metrics, the same way it's indexed to inflation. Shiller and Leonard Burman and Jeffrey Rohaly of the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center first discussed this in 2006. Last month, Burman actually presented such a proposal at a Senate Finance Committee hearing last month. Here's what Shiller says about Burman's updated version of plan: His idea was to integrate inequality indexing with inflation indexing: Instead of just linking tax brackets to inflation as measured by the Consumer Price Index, as we have done for years, he proposed that the adjustments also take account of rising inequality, if it occurred. He proposed a system to offset the loss in tax revenue that inflation indexing would produce, in a way that would get us closer to a target distribution of after-tax income; if inequality worsened, higher tax brackets would bear a bit more of the burden, and people at the bottom would bear less. Read the full piece on NYTimes.com here » FREE AppDownload
acrossthefader.orgFast food is an integral part of American culture.  With all the time and money spent on fast food, most people have strong opinions about where they go and why.  Fans of Five Guys swear its burger is the best thing out there. Others prefer a Big Mac or a Whopper for their burger fix.  We've compiled a list of some of the best and brightest fast-food offerings, and we want to know your favorites.  Thanks in advance for your time! We'll publish the results later this month. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA mascot dressed as a character from the mobile game "Candy Crush Saga" walks the floor of the New York Stock Exchange during the IPO of Mobile game maker King Digital Entertainment Plc March 26, 2014. David Kostin, chief U.S. equity strategist at Goldman Sachs, says the comparison between the recent stock market sell-off and that in March 2000, when the tech bubble burst, "dominated client discussions" last week. "The current sell-off in high-growth and high-valuation stocks, with a concentration in technology subsectors, has some similarities to the popping of the tech bubble in 2000," he writes in a note. "Veteran investors will recall the S&amp;P 500 and the tech-heavy Nasdaq peaked in March 2000. The indices eventually fell by 50% and 75%, respectively. It took the S&amp;P 500 seven years to recover and establish a new high, but the Nasdaq still remains 25% below its all-time peak reached 14 years ago." However, according to Kostin, there are six ways in which the two episodes differ: Recent returns are less dramatic. Although the trailing 12-month returns are similar (22% today versus 18% in 2000), the trailing 3-year and 5-year returns are much lower (51% vs. 107% and 161% vs. 227%, respectively). Valuation is not nearly as stretched. S&amp;P 500 currently trades at a forward P/E of 16x compared with 25x at the peak in 2000. The price/book ratio is 2.7x versus 6.Xx. The EV/sales is currently 1.8x compared with 2.7x in 2000. More balanced market. The reason it is called the “Tech Bubble” is that 14% of the earnings of the S&amp;P 500 came from Tech in 2000 but it accounted for 33% of the equity cap of the index. Today Tech contributes 19% of both earnings and market cap. Top five stocks in 2000 were 18% vs. 11% today. Earnings growth expectations are far less aggressive. Bottom-up 2014 consensus EPS growth currently equals 9%, close to our top-down forecast of 8%. In 2000, consensus expected EPS growth equaled 17%. Interest rates are dramatically lower. 3-month Treasury yields were 5.9% in 2000 vs. 0.05% today while ten-year yields were 6.0% vs. 2.7% today. The yield curve was inverted by 47 bp. Today the slope equals +229 bp. Less new issuance. During 1Q 2000, 115 IPOs were completed for proceeds of $18 billion. In 1Q 2014, 63 completed deals raised $11 billion. Kostin says based on historical patterns, momentum stocks are unlikely to rebound, but the broader market should still be set for modest returns going forward. FREE AppDownload
Efrem Lukatsky / APA pro-Russian gunman stands guard at a seized police station in the eastern Ukraine town of Slovyansk on Sunday, April 13, 2014. MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia's Foreign Ministry said on Sunday that an announcement by the authorities in Kiev that they will mobilize the army to put down a rebellion by pro-Russian militants in eastern Ukraine was a "criminal order". The ministry said the West should bring its allies in Ukraine's government under control. "It is now the West's responsibility to prevent civil war in Ukraine," it said in a statement posted on Facebook. It also said that Russia would put an urgent discussion of the situation in eastern Ukraine on the agenda of theUnited Nations Security Council. "The situation in southeastern Ukraine is taking on an extremely dangerous character. The authorities in Kiev, who put themselves in power as a result of a coup d'etat, have set a course to use force to put down popular protests," the statement said. "We decisively condemn attempts to use brute force against protesters and activists ... We are particularly indignant about the criminal order of (Ukrainian Acting President Oleksander Turchinov) to use the army to put down protest." The statement said the West had sponsored the rulers in Kiev and should now "rein in its out-of-control protégés, force them to distance themselves from neo-Nazis and other extremists, stop using armed force against the Ukrainian people, and immediately start a genuine dialogue". (Reporting by Alessandra Prentice; Writing by Christian Lowe; Editing by Kevin Liffey) FREE AppDownload
Deutsche BankChart 1. Volatility has returned to the markets, and growth stocks in information technology and health care have led the way down. The chart above, from Deutsche Bank strategist Keith Parker, shows the extent to which fund positioning has helped fuel the recent decline in the stock market. "Performance over the last month across stocks and sectors has been driven by position covering," says Parker in a report on recent investor positioning and flows. "Through the first two months of the year, long/short equity hedge funds and mutual funds were neutral the market but long growth stocks, which helped underpin outperformance through the January-February sell-off. The rotation out of growth and into value starting in early March hurt and funds were forced to unwind positions." Chart 2 provides a visual display. Factset Lionshare, Deutsche BankChart 2.Coming into the first quarter of 2014, growth stocks and the stocks with the highest hedge fund ownership were one and the same. Funds were loaded up on health care, consumer discretionary, and tech stocks (think biotech and social media), and the "momentum" trade did well in February following the big market sell-off in late January. As chart 3 shows, the growth stocks were significantly outperforming the broader market until March. NYSE, Factset, Deutsche BankChart 3.Since then, nearly all of the outperformance of this group of hot stocks has been erased as hedge funds have rebalanced, a process Parker says is probably almost over.  However, the unwind is "now spilling over to mutual funds that are still long growth, with outflows from growth funds exacerbating performance." In the week through Wednesday, April 9, equity funds oriented toward growth stocks were hit with $1.7 billion of investor redemptions, following an outflow twice the size in the previous week. Flows into value funds, on the other hand, are accelerating — they took in $1.9 billion in the week through April 9 and $1.7 billion the week before. As one might expect from chart 1, consumer goods, utilities, and energy funds are receiving inflows while tech, health care, and financials funds are losing investor money. David Kostin, chief U.S. equity strategist at Goldman Sachs, says the parallels between recent market action and that in March 2000, when the tech bubble burst, "dominated client discussions" last week. "The current sell-off in high growth and high valuation stocks, with a concentration in technology subsectors, has some similarities to the popping of the tech bubble in 2000," says Kostin. "Veteran investors will recall S&amp;P 500 and tech-heavy Nasdaq peaked in March 2000. The indices eventually fell by 50% and 75%, respectively. It took the S&amp;P 500 seven years to recover and establish a new high but Nasdaq still remains 25% below its all-time peak reached 14 years ago." Kostin's take is that this time is different, as broad market valuations are not as stretched as they were then, and the "bubbly" parts of the market account for a much smaller portion of overall market capitalization today than then (tech accounted for 14% of overall S&amp;P 500 earnings in 2000 but 33% of market cap, whereas today it accounts for 19% of both earnings and market cap). While that is good news for the broader market, it's still bad news for these high-flying growth stocks (see chart 4). Compustat and Goldman Sachs Global Investment ResearchChart 4."The stock market, but not momentum stocks, will likely recover during the next few months," says Kostin. "Analysis of historical trading patterns around momentum drawdowns shows: (a) roughly 70% of the reversal is behind us following a 7% unwind during the last month; (b) an additional 3% downside exists to the momentum reversal during the next three months if the current episode follows the average historical experience; (c) if the pattern followed the path of a 25th percentile event a further 7% momentum downside would occur, or about double the reversal that has taken place so far; and (d) whenever the drawdown ends, momentum typically does NOT resume leadership." On average, Kostin says, the S&amp;P 500 has risen on average by 5% following momentum sell-offs like this, led by value stocks that underperformed as growth stocks were going up. Jan Loeys, head of global asset allocation at JPMorgan, takes a similar view. "Each of the market reversals of the past few weeks has in common that they represented widely held positions — long equities, overweight small caps, overweight tech, underweight emerging markets, and short duration," says Loeys. "If there were greater worries about the economy or other downside risks, then we should have seen the dollar rise, credit and swap spreads widen, and emerging markets underperform. Correlations across risk assets should have risen. None of this has happened. There is no breadth to this sell-off." Of course, there are, as always, reasons to be cautious. Many of them may relate to an optimistic scenario — one in which the economic recovery accelerates, causing the Federal Reserve to tighten monetary policy and interest rates to rise. "S&amp;P 500 price-to-earnings is demanding excluding mega-caps and likely dependent on interest rates staying low versus history," says David Bianco, chief U.S. equity strategist at Deutsche Bank. Another factor to consider is corporate stock buybacks, which have restricted the supply of shares trading in the market. "While everyone is focused on valuation and bubbles (to some degree rightfully so), the fact remains that the last few years have been supported by a low level of net equity issuance that has, all else equal, supported prices," says Dan Greenhaus, chief global strategist at BTIG. This trend may now be poised to reverse as buyback activity slows, given the fact that shares have become more expensive as the market has headed higher. "Rather than investing in new equipment and structures, businesses have used their cash positions to buy back stock or to grow through acquisitions," says Aneta Markowska, chief U.S. economist at Société Générale. "This process, however, may be coming to an end. The ratio of the market value of equities to the replacement value of tangible assets (or the so-called Tobin's Q ratio) has increased significantly in the past year and now stands at the highest levels since 2000. With equity values currently estimated at 25% above replacement value, expanding organically seems to make a lot more economic sense than expanding through acquisitions or stock buybacks." In other words, earnings per share have been boosted by a shrinking denominator — the amount of shares outstanding. If shares outstanding stop declining as buyback activity recedes and net equity issuance turns positive, it will put more onus on the numerator — the actual earnings — to propel earnings per share higher. However, an acceleration in wage growth is a likely pre-requisite to Fed tightening. Such a development would pose a further headwind to earnings as corporations face rising employment costs. "It now seems that what would be good for the recovery — higher labour income — will be detrimental for profit margins," says Gerard Minack, principal of Minack Advisors. "This may be a good year for the economy, but profits may fall short of forecasts." FREE AppDownload
WikmediaThe New York Post's John Aidan Byrne reports the SEC is planning a sweeping campaign against high-frequency traders in the wake of revelations about the extent of their impact published in Michael Lewis' book "Flash Boys." Byrne says a series of new regulations and enforcement actions by the agency will amount to a "purge" of the sector, competition against which "Flash Boys" protagonist Brad Katsuyama described as like "getting screwed, but [I] couldn't figure out who was screwing me."  “You’ll probably see the commission coalesce around those enforcement cases and then bring new rules on high-frequency trading,” a source with knowledge of the SEC’s thinking told the Post. “There’s a lot of pressure on the SEC to act.” Click here to read the full story » FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesRight now our inflation rate is around 1 percent. But some at the Fed say that's way too low. The hope is to see inflation go up. But why on earth would we want to increase inflation?   "A little bit is good, but not too much. It's like a lot of things in life — good in moderation," says Jeremy Siegel, a professor of finance at Wharton. "Higher inflation is a bad thing, but mild inflation, statistically has been associated with very good economic times." Siegel says during times of inflation, the dollar decreases in value. So the $100 you borrowed back in the day was worth more then, than your $100 payment today — which means less financial burdens for consumers and more cash to spend. And that's one reason the Fed wants to see inflation go up — just a little bit.  "It's not so high as to be hurting a lot of people, but it's at a level which would probably create a lot of jobs," says Gary Thayer, chief macro strategist at Wells Fargo Advisers.  Thayer says the benefit of job creation would probably outweigh a slightly higher inflation rate. FREE AppDownload
AP A new, highly anticipated study on the effects of the Affordable Care Act suggests the number of Americans without insurance has plummeted since September, lending more evidence to the notion Obamacare is having its primary desired effect. And according to the study, the uninsured rate dropped due to a development no one saw coming, that had nothing to do with the controversial health care exchanges established by the law. According to the RAND Corp. survey, which was released Tuesday, a net 9.3 million people have gained coverage since September — something that helped plunge the uninsured rate in the U.S. from 20.5 percent to 15.8 percent.  The RAND study comes with a big caveat, however. The topline number of 9.3 million contains a margin of error of 3.5 million people. That means as few as 5.8 million people could have gained coverage, or as many as 12.8 million.  Either way, it's still a big deal, said Christine Eibner, a senior economist at RAND and one of the study's two authors. "All surveys are going to have this margin of error," Eibner told Business Insider in a phone interview Tuesday. "That's to be expected, because we're extrapolating results from a very small sample of the full population of the U.S., but nevertheless, the margin of error is telling us that we can have a high degree of confidence in the direction of our results, in that we've seen an increase in insurance. Because 9.3 minus 3.5 is still a significant increase." In spite of these eye-popping topline numbers, the most interesting finding from the study might be the reason for the decrease in the uninsured rate. RAND projects it was due to growing enrollment in employer-sponsored insurance — programs that exist outside of the exchanges created by the Affordable Care Act. Enrollment in these ESIs grew by more than 8 million from September through mid-March. This includes a large swath of individuals — 7.2 million — who were previously uninsured.  These numbers seem surprising on their face, but, Eibner said, they make sense. "One thing that got lost in the discussion — the Affordable Care Act really wasn't just about covering people on the marketplaces," she said. "The law was intended to expand insurance coverage using a whole bunch of different programs, including the existing system, which is heavily based on employer-based coverage." Eibner also added "any change" in the regulations governing ESI would be the primary factor behind movement in the overall insurance rate since, even with the new "Obamacare" exchanges, ESI remains "the major source of coverage" for most people in the country. The apparent increase in the number of people insured with ESI identified in this study could be statistical noise that doesn't completely reflect reality. Indeed, few experts predicted the Affordable Care Act would lead to a surge in employer-based coverage. In May 2013, for example, the Congressional Budget Office projected the ranks of the insured through employers would rise by only 1 million. Furthermore, RAND doesn't have any data on possible reasons for the huge surge in employer-sponsored insurance. However, Eibner offered several ways the Affordable Care Act could actually have led to a surge in the number of people insured with ESI: Additionally, another survey released by Gallup Monday came up with a similar number to RAND's 15.8 percent uninsured rate. In fact, Gallup put the uninsured rate even lower at 15.6 percent, its lowest level since 2008. However, while the Gallup survey would seem to support the RAND study's conclusion that the overall uninsured rate had dropped, it did not distinguish between types of coverage and doesn't make clear whether the decrease is due to more people being insured with ESI.  The RAND study was completed through rather unusual methods. The results in the survey are based on a representative sample of 2,425 adults between the ages of 18 and 64 who responded to the survey in both March 2014 and September 2013. The Obama administration said last week enrollment through the healthcare exchanges had surpassed an original goal of 7 million. RAND's study only takes into account data from September through mid-March, which means subsequent studies should reflect the late surge in exchange enrollment in addition to any growth in the number of people insured with ESI. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Konstantin ChernichkinKIEV (Reuters) - Ukraine's authorities plan to launch a "full-scale anti-terrorist operation" involving the army against pro-Russian separatist militants, the acting president said on Sunday. Oleksander Turchinov said in a televised address to the nation that Russia was waging a war against Ukraine by sowing disorder in the east of the country, but he offered not to prosecute any militants who gave up their weapons by Monday morning. Referring to the death of a state security officer and the wounding of other members of law-enforcement bodies in an earlier clash with pro-Russian militants near the town of Slaviansk, he said: "The blood of Ukrainian heroes has been shed in a war which the Russian Federation is waging against Ukraine. "The aggressor has not stopped and is continuing to sow disorder in the east of the country," he said, referring to a rash of attacks on state buildings by pro-Russian militants in towns in Russia-speaking areas of the east. Kiev authorities say the separatists rebellions have been inspired and directed by the Kremlin, a charge Moscowdenies. "The National Security and Defense Council has decided to launch a full-scale anti-terrorist operation involving the armed forces of Ukraine," he declared. "We will not allow Russia to repeat the Crimean scenario in the eastern regions of the country," referring toMoscow's annexation of the peninsula following its take-over by pro-Russian militants. (Writing Richard Balmforth; Editing by Conor Humphries) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei KatoMen, wearing masks, are reflected on a screen displaying a graph showing movements of Shanghai B shares outside a brokerage in Tokyo WASHINGTON (Reuters) - For a bunch of people who just agreed the global economy is doing better, top officials from the world's rich and poor nations sound rather worried. For poor nations, the easy monetary policies in advanced economies are leading to big swings in capital flows that could destabilize emerging markets. For rich countries, the hoarding of currency by developing nations is blocking progress toward a more stable global economy. Those tensions, which have been brewing for years, seemed to be rising as finance ministers and central bank chiefs from the Group of 20 economies gathered last week in Washington, as evidenced by harsh words from Washington and Delhi. Both rich and poor say they are acting in their own self interest, and what makes the conflict so intractable is that both have very rational arguments. Even though the G20 agreed the global economy was on better footing, the tensions suggested little progress ahead in rebalancing the global economy away from a state where the rich world borrows massively to buy things from the poor world. "This is not a healthy place," Raghuram Rajan, governor of India's central bank, told a panel ahead of the G20 meeting. Rajan has become a leading agitator for reforming the global monetary order, and he urged central bankers in advanced nations to avoid experimental monetary policies that might hurt the global economy. He argued that years of easy money policies in the developed world had pushed emerging markets to hold bigger dollar reserves so they can intervene in currency markets to protect their economies from big swings in capital flows. The need to hoard is only growing, as it now appears that the United States, Europe and Japan could keep easy money policies in place for several more years. "You have to consider the feedback or spillover effects on other economies," Brazilian central bank chief Alexandre Tombini said of rich nation policies, speaking alongside Rajan. Developed countries, led by the United States, argue their stimulus efforts are in the best interest of emerging nations because they lift the global economy. They say the poors' reliance on currency interventions is holding the world back. Emerging markets often build dollar reserves by keeping their currencies weak to spur more exports, forcing developed economies to borrow to cover their import tab. Many economists feel heavy borrowing by the world's biggest consumer, the United States, fueled the asset bubble that sparked the 2007-09 financial crisis. "Resistance in many emerging markets to moving more quickly to market-determined exchange rate regimes are hindering the rebalancing needed to ensure a lasting, strong global recovery," a senior U.S. Treasury official told reporters. Officials in rich countries have largely rejected a call by Rajan call for increased coordination of monetary policy. Vitor Constancio, the vice president of the European Central Bank, said a more cooperative approach among policymakers would work if emerging markets allowed their currencies to strengthen more, but that this had already failed. "There was never the acceptance of some degree of appreciation in the emerging economies," he said, speaking on the same panel as Tombini and Rajan. The root problem could be that central bankers are trying to do too much because their governments are doing too little. Most economists think politicians around the world could do a lot more to help their economies grow. But rich nations are hesitant to rely on deficit spending and poor countries habitually lag in promoting competition in their markets. If the governments stepped up, monetary policies wouldn't have to play such an outsized role in spurring economic growth and maintaining financial stability. Eswar Prasad, an economist at the Brookings Institution and Cornell University, said this bodes poorly for future global growth. "We end up having the central bankers fight proxy battles on behalf of politicians who are feckless and not willing to do the right thing," he said. "I don't see this moving in a productive direction." (Reporting by Jason Lange; Editing by Tim Ahmann) FREE AppDownload
POOL New/ReutersA man looks over a field in drought-ridden California.The scarcity of irrigation water in drought-stricken California has created such a demand for well drilling services that Central Valley farmer Bob Smittcamp is taking matters into his own hands. He's buying a drilling rig for $1 million to make certain he has enough water this summer for thousands of acres of fruit and vegetable crops. "It's like an insurance policy," said Smittcamp, who knows two other farmers doing the same thing. "You have to do something to protect your investment." With California in a third dry year, well drilling is booming across the nation's most productive agricultural region, and some drilling companies are booked for months or a year. In some counties, requests for permits to dig new wells have soared, more than doubling over this time last year. Farmers expect to get only a fraction — if any — of the water they need from vast government-controlled systems of canals and reservoirs interlacing the state. In an effort to make up the difference, they are drilling hundreds of feet deep to tap underground water supplies. Smittcamp said a licensed driller he often hires approached him, saying the demand for drillers is so high that Smittcamp needs his own full-scale drilling rig. Smittcamp, whose Wawona Packing Co. farms thousands of acres, said he has written a $150,000 check as a deposit and the rest is due upon delivery of the $1 million rig, which he expects to happen soon. He estimates that he spends $4,000 an acre tending his peach and grape crops before the harvest. If a well were to run dry mid-season with nobody to call, Smittcamp said he could lose that investment — and perhaps entire orchards or vineyards. When the rig isn't being used on Smittcamp's land, he said the driller will put it to work on neighboring farms to recoup the investment. The boom driving farmers to such lengths is a result of drought and a steadily improving economy, said John Hofer, an underground water consultant and executive director of the California Groundwater Association. Hofer said his consulting firm started receiving more calls last year, and that's when he predicted the rising demand for drillers would follow. "I kept telling my friends and associates to look out, that it was going to get crazy, and it has," he said. "Drilling is up big-time." The figures prove it. In Fresno County, which leads the nation in agricultural production, officials issued 256 permits to dig new wells in the first three months of 2014, more than twice the number compared to the same time last year. That includes all types of water wells used for agriculture and homes. In Tulare County, the number of permits issued to dig farm wells alone has tripled to 245. In Kern County, farmers took out 63 new well permits in the first quarter of the year, more than quadrupling last year's number. The price to dig a well depends on the depth and ground composition, drillers say, costing a farmer anywhere from $50,000 to $500,000 before installing the pumps. Tapping groundwater has other costs. The water that was deposited underground naturally over thousands of years isn't being replaced as rapidly as it's being drawn, causing the ground in the Central Valley to sink in a process called subsidence. In California, there is little if any regulation of groundwater pumping by the state. In most years, Central Valley farmers draw one-third of their water from wells, while the remaining two-thirds comes from California's State Water Project and the federal Central Valley Project. Most farmers expect to receive no water from either this summer, and that ratio is dramatically shifting to underground water supplies, which could eventually run dry. Matt Rottman, president of Rottman Drilling Co. based in Lancaster, said his mid-sized firm of three rigs is backlogged 15 months. For a recent job near Bakersfield, his crew dug a 1,840-foot well. Three wells coming up later this year in the Central Valley will hit depths of 2,000 feet. Farmers calling Rottman tell him they're in a pinch. They don't expect any water from the state and federal water projects this summer, and Rottman said the market price of buying irrigation water elsewhere has shot up three or four times. "They're shut off," he said. "They'll be looking at crop damage if they don't get wells in." Mike Maggiora, owner of Gillroy-based Maggiora Bros. Drilling Inc. and president of the California Groundwater Association, said he suspects that some drillers are backlogged because farmers are calling several firms to see who responds first. He's booked for the next three months. His eight crews work 24 hours a day for weeks drilling each well, which Maggiora said is a nice change from two years ago when the economy was bad and work was hard to find. Now, Maggiora said he has trouble finding workers willing to put in the grueling hours. He also fears today's boom will cause a run on supplies, such as the steel casings used to keep the walls from caving in. So he's ordering them by the truckload. Smittcamp said he worries that so much drilling could cause underground water supplies to run dry in little more than a decade. He blames politicians for failing to give farmers any other options, leaving them to fend for themselves. This summer, Smittcamp said he has to come up with two-thirds of his water that would normally come from the state and federal water deliveries. "This year, we get none out of the projects," he said. "So we've got to pump the whole enchilada." Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsWorkers study Hubble’s main, eight-foot (2.4 m) mirror.Charlie Bilello, the director of Research at Pension Partners, an investment advisor managing mutual funds, just Tweeted the following table comparing 2013 and 2014 returns on a selection of assets. It shows that this year has been the mirror image of the last: Things like precious metals are doing great, while stocks are tumbling. Bilello writes in a blog on the table: In total, there is negative correlation of -.82 between asset class returns in 2013 and asset class returns in 2014. Score this as another win for asset allocation, rebalancing, risk management and prudence, all of which were deemed obsolete following 2013. Check it out: Charlie Bilello FREE AppDownload
How to cancel cable and stream all your content for a lot less money. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Phil NobleA worker crosses the floor of the Eurofighter Typhoon production line at BAE systems Warton plant near Preston, northern England September 7, 2012. LONDON (Reuters) - Britain's aerospace and defense industries warned on Sunday that the sector could lose its global competitive edge as a result of Scotland's bid for independence, which is due to be decided by a referendum later this year. The ADS Group, an aerospace and defense trade organization, said the uncertainty over the future of taxation, fiscal and monetary policy that the September 18 referendum has generated was a major cause of concern for firms operating in Britain. "September's referendum on the future of Scotland could have a profound impact on these sectors' global competitiveness," said ADS Group Chief Executive Paul Everitt. "In addition to the debates about monetary and fiscal policy, there is genuine uncertainty about the impact of independence on the UK's - and Scotland's - international influence, export opportunities and inward investment." Britain is home to a number of major aerospace and defense industry firms such as BAE Systems, Cobham and Babcock - all of whom are members of the ADS Group. Britain's defense sector has a 22 billion pound ($37 billion) annual turnover and employs more than 300,000 people. The industry is heavily reliant on government procurement, leaving it exposed to political uncertainty. Sunday's comments are the latest in series of warnings from business leaders across a range of sectors, including finance and energy, who are concerned about a possible end to Scotland's 307-year tie with the rest of Britain. In their statement the ADS Group warned that a split may have far-reaching consequences, such as forcing companies into a costly reshuffling of supply chains which straddle the English-Scottish border. "Companies are concerned about the costs and consequences negotiation and transition arrangements might have on procurement budgets, mature supply chains and highly-skilled workforces," Everitt said. (Reporting by William James; Editing by Raissa Kasolowsky) FREE AppDownload
Grimy, slum-packed and astonishingly crowded, Bangladesh's capital rarely comes out on top in comparisons with global cities like New York or London. Except, it seems, when it comes to real estate. Along Gulshan Avenue in the city's central business district, the price of an acre of land is equivalent to $75 million, said Ahsan Mansur, a housing analyst at the Policy Research Institute. That's approximately $1,700 per square foot. By comparison, land in Manhattan averaged $400 per square foot at the end of last year, according to New York brokerage firms.  FREE AppDownload
Getty / Pablo Blazquez Dominguez LONDON (Reuters) - Europe's largest banks cut their staff by another 3.5 percent last year and the prospect of a return to pre-crisis employment levels seems far off, despite the region's fledgling economic recovery. Spurred into action by falling revenue, mounting losses and the need to convince regulators they are no longer "too big to fail", banks across the globe have shrunk radically since the 2008 collapse of U.S. bank Lehman Brothers sparked the financial crisis. Last year, the tide of bad news began to turn for European banks, which are among the region's largest employers. Helped by recovering economies and receding fears for the euro zone's future, the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Banks index &lt;.SX7P&gt; rose 19 percent, outpacing the 17.4 percent increase in multi-sector stocks. But despite the improved outlook, Europe's 30 largest banks by market value cut staff by 80,000 in 2013, calculations by Reuters based on their year-end statements showed. Recruitment consultants warn workers' hopes for a turnaround this year could be misplaced, bad news for countries like Spain where tens of thousands of bank layoffs have helped drive unemployment to 26 percent. However, while painful for the people who have lost their jobs, the reduction of large banks' workforces through a combination of asset sales and redundancies means banks won't have as big an impact on overall employment in future crises. Antoine Morgaut, chief executive for Europe and South America at recruiter Robert Walters &lt;RWA.L&gt; does not expect the industry's employment to ever return to what it was in its heyday of 2008. Then, the 25 of the top 30 banks with comparable figures employed about 252,000 more than the 1.7 million they do today. "It's been a bubble for 20 years," said Morgaut. "In specialty areas we are seeing a bit of an upside but it is quite marginal and it will stay like that for the next six to nine months," he added. BIG-TICKET RESTRUCTURING The most dramatic of last year's job cuts came from major restructurings, such as Spain's Bankia &lt;BKIA.MC&gt; which shed 23 percent of its workforce to help meet the conditions of its 41 billion euro ($56.9 billion) European rescue. Italy's Unicredit &lt;CRDI.MI&gt;, which reduced the highest number of staff, 8,490, said in its annual report that some of the reductions were the result of a project to outsource IT functions to joint ventures. Belgium's KBC &lt;KBC.BR&gt; cited asset sales as a major reason for its 7,938 reduction in headcount, 22 percent of its workforce. The bailed-out bank sold Russian offshoot Absolut Bank and Serbian business KBC Banka. Staff figures for Absolut Bank were not available, while KBC Banka's most recent figures show 501 staff at the end of 2012. Spain's BBVA &lt;BBVA.MC&gt; also cited asset sales as the driver of its 6,547 reduction in staff, or 23 percent of headcount, which came in a year when the bank sold operations in Latin America. At Bank of Ireland &lt;BKIR.I&gt;, where a 6.3 percent fall in headcount was the fifth-largest in the region, a redundancy program was the main reason. The pace of staff reductions approximately halved last year and most banks are now coming to the end of disposals and cutbacks agreed during the crisis. However, upcoming European Union-wide tests on whether banks need to hold bigger capital cushions could trigger another wave of asset sales and cuts. Routine streamlining continued last year. HSBC &lt;HSBA.L&gt; the biggest employer in the pack, cut headcount by 6,525, or 2.5 percent of its global total. The bank came through the crisis without a bailout, but has slimmed down over the last three years by closing or selling dozens of businesses. Only three of the banks - Barclays &lt;BARC.L&gt;, Handelsbanken &lt;SHBa.ST&gt; and Deutsche Bank &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt; - added jobs last year, and those totaled less than 770. POCKETS OF GROWTH Banks are hiring in a few areas, however, with some recruiters citing rises in specialist compliance roles such as anti-money laundering, cyber security and internal audit as lenders have to deal with increasing demands from regulators determined to avoid a repeat of the crisis. "The regulatory pressure is a cost drag on the banks but if a role is required by the regulators, then all senior management can get out of the way, and you can pull the trigger and hire that person," said Hugo Gordon Lennox, a managing director at Webber Fox, a UK quantitative and risk management recruitment specialist. Others said banks were beginning to address problems created by previous cutbacks, particularly amongst the sparse ranks of more junior employees. "As business picks up, firms often find themselves with quite specific and definable skills gaps in certain areas and banks have definitely started to try to address that," said David Leithead, managing director for banking and financial services at recruitment firm Michael Page &lt;MPI.L&gt;. Even so, big jumps in the numbers employed by banks could take a while to come. "It's the whole oil tanker analogy - it's slow to stop and slower to speed up," said Miles Stribbling, director of strategic partnerships and head of Phaidon Consulting Services UK at recruiter Phaidon International. ($1 = 0.7201 Euros) (Editing by Erica Billingham) FREE AppDownload
Which countries have the best things going for them demographically, and which have the worst? This chart from investor Charlie Robertson — which he contributed to our presentation on the most important charts in the world — nicely lays out the coming changes to global demographics. The big winners — in terms of which countries will see the biggest increases to the prime-age population are both in Africa: Nigeria and Kenya. The US is right in the middle. Russia and Ukraine are big losers. Charlie Robertson FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsDovi FrancesAt just 35, financier Dovi Frances holds the Guinness World Record for selling the most expensive single life insurance policy in history. Frances, who runs SG, LLC, in Santa Barbara, Calif., helped put together a $201 million policy for a "well-known" Silicon Valley billionaire in the tech space. It involved more than a dozen underwriters to put together the transaction. It was complicated, but Frances says that's his firm's specialty, addressing "the complex financial needs" of wealthy people. "Why would anyone need a $201 million life insurance policy?" I recently asked Frances over breakfast in midtown Manhattan. He said there's no more effective way to protect your estate than through life insurance. When you die, he said, your estate is taxed by the government at about 45 percent. If your net worth is $1 billion, then the tax would be in the hundreds of millions. The problem is that billionaires aren't necessarily liquid.  "The interesting thing about an event of death is this — you're not liquid. If you're worth $1 billion, you're not $1 billion liquid. You have some stocks, you have some assets," he said, adding that those things aren't easily liquidated. According to Frances, it's the high-net-worth folks who think ahead of time about the financial situation they'll leave behind. "Let's be honest. We have a very short period of time here. That's why you and I are so driven to make an impact. It's our show. The curtain will close. May as well make an impact and leave a mark and have fun while doing it. Most people don't think about the after when they're gone ... And because of that, many people ignore it. 'Oh, I'll take care of it later.' People don't do it. Sophisticated people do it because they have good advisers." At such a young age, Frances has drive. He considers his work his hobby. He loves building businesses.  Frances grew up in Israel, where he shared a bedroom with his three brothers. His father was an Israeli IRS agent who inherited a small auto garage outside Tel Aviv from Frances' grandfather. Frances' father turned the garage into a business with 400 employees and several locations. It could have been Frances' business, but it wasn't the path for him.  "I would have been wealthy," he said. "I wanted to do things by myself and live and die on my own sword."  Frances spent 4 1/2 years in the Israeli army (the requirement is 3 years for men). During that time, he was in the infantry and attended the officers' academy. He went on to graduate from business school, and then followed his older brother to Deutsche Bank in San Francisco in June 2008. He was a junior-level bank employee when he woke up and watched the news of the Lehman Brothers' collapse that September.  Despite the financial-market meltdown, Frances didn't lose his job. That's because there was one financial instrument that Deutsche Bank had that other banks didn't — loans. And Frances excelled in selling loans. However, when the government rolled out the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), his competitive advantage was destroyed. Other banks had started extending credit, and his pipeline was gone overnight.  He didn't give up, though. Instead, he thought of a new idea to get clients. "With that, I needed to figure out a way to reinvent myself as a banker. I decided to do something no banker has done before — direct letters to people who are not clients who reside in properties in excess of $5 million." Frances worked with Deutsche's legal and compliance to draft the letter. He sent out 2,000 and received two responses. One of those responses was from Sergey Grishin, a Russian billionaire. Frances said Grishin's chief of staff saw the letter and opened it. Grishin thought "Dovi Frances" was an interesting name. That's when the billionaire decided to reach out. Frances got an email from Grishin about 3 a.m., saying, "Hey, Dovi, I got the letter. I want to meet. I just bought this house for $27 million in cash! When are you available?" They met that same morning in Santa Barbara.  After, he managed to bring Grishin on board as a client. They did some deals together, and eight months later Frances left the bank to launch SG, LLC. (SG stands for Sergey Grishin.) SG was founded to help wealthy people secure jumbo loans. Since 2010, they've facilitated $550 million in loans for 450 families. Frances has built a family office for Grishin. They have an asset-management business for wealthy families as well as a venture-capital business called SG VC. This is only the beginning, Frances says. He plans to continue to work hard so that when he's no longer on this earth his survivors will also have a better life. "Hard work pays. It enables you to give better life chances to your survivors. Your kids, their kids. I want to do for my kids what my dad has done for me. I want to be able to offer them added value, to teach them discipline, creativity, and wisdom, while allowing them to go to good schools. Then they can go and find themselves."  FREE AppDownload
Michael McDonough, Bloomberg This past week, Greece made its triumphant return to global financial markets, with its successful floatation of a 5-year bond offering. In total Greece borrowed $4.16 billion at a rate of 4.95%. But Greece's success is just a small slice of a much bigger story, which is the incredible appetite for European sovereign debt. The above chart goes back 5 years and it shows borrowing costs for several European countries, including the US (in grey). Probably the most striking lines are the Italian and Spanish ones (yellow and blue). At current trends, it won't be long until Italy and Spain are borrowing for less than what the US does for 10 years. So what's the story? There's a few things going on. One is that in the summer of 2012, with the Eurozone crisis raging, Mario Draghi issued his famous three words "whatever it takes" which preceded a policy of implicit government guarantees for sovereigns. If a government gets in trouble in the debt markets, the ECB will backstop them and buy unlimited amounts of debt (provided the government agrees to oversight and restructuring). The ECB has never had to spend a penny on this program, but just the knowledge that the program exists has had a significant palliative effect on markets. Meanwhile, the Eurozone economy still stinks, and there's a real threat of deflation across Europe. Some countries are already experiencing deflation. That raises the pressure on the ECB to cut rates even further, and possibly engage in some sort of QE-style program. Meanwhile, the yields on some of these government bonds just look juicy. Compared to British, German, and US debt, the debt of Italy and France is high-yielding, and opportunities like that are not abundant in this economy, especially given the risks in emerging markets these days. So what was once one of the world's most hated asset classes — European government debt — is now in the throes of a vicious bull market. FREE AppDownload
We talked to some of the famous Hooters girls at the chain's Manhattan location about what it's like to wear the legendary, tight uniform. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis and Kamelia Angelova. Additional camera by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Gleb GaranichPro-Russian men gather around a fire at a barricade near the police headquarters in Slaviansk April 13, 2014.  SLAVIANSK, Ukraine (Reuters) - Ukrainian security forces launched an operation on Sunday to clear pro-Russian separatists from state buildings in the eastern city of Slaviansk, with dead reported on both sides as Kiev combats what it calls an act of aggression by Moscow. With East-West relations in crisis, NATO described the appearance in eastern Ukraine of men with specialized Russian weapons and identical uniforms without insignia - as previously worn by Moscow's troops when they seized Crimea - as a "grave development". Ukraine faces a rash of rebellions in the east that it says are inspired and directed by the Kremlin. But action to dislodge the armed militants risks tipping the stand-off into a new, dangerous phase as Moscow has warned it will protect the region's Russian-speakers if they come under attack. One Ukrainian state security officer was killed and five wounded on the government side in what interior minister Arsen Avakov called Sunday's "anti-terrorist" operation. "There were dead and wounded on both sides," Avakov said on his Facebook page, adding that about 1,000 people were supporting the separatists. The Russian news agency RIA reported that one pro-Moscow activist was killed in Slaviansk in clashes with forces loyal to the Kiev government. "On our side, another two were injured," RIA quoted pro-Russian militant Nikolai Solntsev as adding. The separatists are holed up in the local headquarters of the police and of the state security service, while others have erected road blocks around Slaviansk, which lies about 150 km (90 miles) from the Russian border. However, details of the fighting remain sketchy. A statement from the administration of the eastern Donetsk region indicated the security officer may have been killed between Slaviansk and the nearby town of Artemivsk. Putting the number of wounded at nine, it said "an armed confrontation" was going on in the area. Kiev accuses Moscow of trying to deepen violence and chaos in Ukraine, a former Soviet republic it once ruled. The Kremlin, it says, wants to undermine the legitimacy of presidential elections on May 25 which aim to set the country back onto a normal path after months of turmoil. However, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Kiev was "demonstrating its inability to take responsibility for the fate of the country" and warned that any use of force against Russian speakers "would undermine the potential for cooperation", including talks due to be held on Thursday between Russia, Ukraine, the United Statesand the European Union. Relations between Russia and the West are at their worst since the Cold War due to the crisis that began when Moscow-backed Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovich was pushed out by popular protests in February. Moscow then annexed Crimea from Ukraine, saying the Russian population there was under threat. Some Western governments believe the Kremlin is preparing a similar scenario for eastern Ukraine, something Moscow has strenuously denied. In Kramatorsk, about 15 km south of Slaviansk, gunmen seized the police headquarters after a shootout with police, a Reuters witness said. The attackers were a well-organized unit of over 20 men, wearing matching military fatigues and carrying automatic weapons, who had arrived by bus. Video footage showed the men taking orders from a commander. Their identity was unclear. Their level of discipline and equipment was in contrast to the groups who have occupied buildings so far in Ukraine. They have been mostly civilians formed into informal militias with mismatched uniforms. NATO Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen expressed concern about similarities in some of the separatists' appearance to that of the Russian troops who seized control in Crimea. Calling on Russia to pull back its large number of troops, including special forces, from the area around Ukraine's border, he said in a statement: "Any further Russian military interference, under any pretext, will only deepen Russia's international isolation." Moscow says the troops are on normal maneuvers. Lavrov said it was Ukraine's Western-leaning government, viewed by the Kremlin as illegitimate, that was stoking the tensions. United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said he was deeply concerned about the deteriorating situation ineastern Ukraine and "the growing potential for violent clashes". The crisis over Ukraine could trigger a "gas war", disrupting supplies of Russian natural gas to customers across Europe. Moscow has said it may be forced to sever deliveries to Ukraine - the transit route for much of Europe's gas - unless Kiev settles its debts. For now, though, the focus of the crisis was in eastern Ukraine, the country's industrial heartland, where many people feel a close affinity with neighboring Russia. In the eastern city of Kharkiv, several people were injured in clashes between supporters of the revolution that brought the Kiev leadership to power and opponents who favor closer ties with Russia. In another eastern town Zaporizhzhya Interfax news agency said 3,000 pro-European supporters turned out in a unity rally and faced off with several hundred pro-Moscow supporters, many of them waving the Russian flag. "We are ready to defend ourselves," said separatist Vyacheslav Ponomaryov, who said he had taken over leadership of Slaviansk after the city's mayor fled. Yulia Tymoshenko - a former Ukrainian prime minister who was jailed under Yanukovich and is running for next month's presidential election - said the unrest in eastern Ukraine was the work of Russian state security agents, designed to wrongfoot the EU and United States, which have imposed sanctions over the Crimean annexation, at Thursday's talks in Switzerland. "There is an ulterior motive for this aggression, because in a few days there will be big negotiations in Geneva which Russia, out of weakness because of financial sanctions, asked for," she was quoted as saying by Interfax news agency. (Additional reporting by Conor Humphries and Natalia Zinets and Richard Balmforth in Kiev, Alessandra Prentice inMoscow and Adrian Croft in Brussels; Writing by Christian Lowe, David Stamp and Will Waterman) FREE AppDownload
Back in March, the IMF raised the prospect that "lowflation" — not quite deflation, but pretty darn close — could mean Eurozone growth never gets back to healthy levels. It's not just Europe anymore. This weekend, St. Louis Fed economist Silvio Contessi posted a chart showing how lowflation is now a feature of the developed world. It shows how far core and headline inflation has deviated from targets set by central banks, including ones that are supposed to be immune from the Eurozone's histrionics, like Sweden, Switzerland and Denmark.   St. Louis Fed Contessi writes: Why is this scenario worrisome? Even if advanced economies do not fall into plain deflation, prolonged lowflation below inflation targets may undermine the successful work of several central banks in anchoring inflation expectations to close to 2% in the past 20 years. In addition, lowflation has 'real' consequences because it increases the real burden of repaying outstanding public and private debt that have grown quite large in advanced economies after the financial crisis. In other words, central bank easing may have never had a chance at doing much to boost growth because they were being executed in an economic environment that basically smothered their effect on impact. What's more, Contessi is saying, the lack of growth in wages and interest rates is going to make paying off everyone's debts much more difficult.   Not good.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Aly Song Editor's note: Below is an interview with Adrian Miller, director of fixed income strategy at GMP Securities. This Q&amp;A went out to subscribers of our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter on Thursday morning. Sign up below to get the newsletter and more of these interviews in your inbox every day. BUSINESS INSIDER: What is the most exciting trade out there right now, in your opinion? ADRIAN MILLER: Given the lingering uncertainty about whether the U.S. economy will be able to gain sufficient momentum to achieve our full year 3.0% GDP target and whether the Fed will effectively negotiate its wind-down of QE and manage the market’s expectations of its future monetary policy, the most exciting opportunity right now is trading the US Treasury curve. BI: Which developments in global financial markets, if any, would you flag as most concerning for risk appetite? AM: The most concerning trend in risk appetite is the dramatic compression of the euro zone periphery debt yield premium versus the German Bund. As investors search for yield with their presumed safety net of the ECB, they are not paying enough heed to the credit risk profile differentiation between the "have" and "have not" countries of the euro zone. This trend has provided a window for Greece's return to the capital markets before they have completed structural reforms, even after the March 2012 sovereign debt restructuring resulted in a 70% haircut. BI: On the other hand, what is the most encouraging sign? AM: The most encouraging sign has been the market’s growing skepticism of China’s ability to properly balance its growth initiatives while also enacting historic financial and regulatory reforms and rebalancing its economy from exports driven demand to domestic demand. Getting the balance right will be a Herculean task and requires a fair amount of risk premium to be applied to Chinese financial market assets. BI: What pieces of new information (e.g. economic data releases, price action in a given market over the next few days/weeks, etc.) do you think have the biggest potential to alter your outlook? AM: In the near term, I'll be focused on the economic development of what I call the "global growth bookends" — the U.S. and China — and the bond market’s reaction to the Fed's forward guidance message. An excessive hike in long term rates due to an overreaction by the bond market ahead of the domestic and global economy’s ability to absorb the higher rates would significantly risk a stall in global growth. BI: What do you perceive to be the most misunderstood trend or event in or characteristic of today's markets? AM: The most misunderstood characteristic is the degree of fragmentation in emerging-market economic trends and the related reform developments. The IMF often claims we are in a two speed global economy, but in truth, the emerging-market region is running at multiple speeds depending on the region and country. Notable differentiation can be found between the EMEA, LatAm and Asia (ex-Japan) regions. FREE AppDownload
