The Wolf of Wall Street might be Martin Scorsese's raunchiest film yet. But why waste three hours slogging through the whole thing when you could spend 4 and a half minutes just watching all the f-words? Here it is, courtesy of Slacktory. "While editing this, our contributor Zach Prewitt counted 522 audible, intelligible fucks, the highest count in any major non-documentary feature," says Slacktory's Nick Douglas. "'The Big Lebowski' only had 260." The audio is most certainly NSFW. So is the video.  FREE AppDownload
BreakingWorldNews/YouTubeMoritz ErhardtBank of America Merrill Lynch has issued a memo requiring its lower-level employees to take four weekend days off a month following the death of a 21-year-old intern last summer, Reuters reports. The bank's analysts and associates — the most junior positions  — have to get permission from senior managers if they don't want to take those days off, according to the memo, which also applies to summer interns. The memo said the purpose of the guidelines is to increase "the efficient use of our time and resources, support work-life balance, increase our junior banker staffing levels and enhance the overall work experience." The new guidelines come after a review that lasted several months, according to The New York Times. The issue of long work hours for young bankers "sharpened" for Bank of America after the death of 21-year-old intern Moritz Erhardt in August, The Times noted. There were unconfirmed reports that he pulled three consecutive all-nighters before his death, according to The Times. While the cause of death was ultimately determined to be epilepsy, the Times noted that his death spurred banks to reevaluate the punishing hours expected of junior bankers. “We are committed to making the work experience better for junior bankers and believe these enhancements will help ensure they have the resources and support needed to succeed,” Christian Meissner, who heads Bank of America's global corporate and investment banking, said in the memo that was cited by The Times. FREE AppDownload
Gambling is defined as staking something on a contingency. However, when trading is considered, gambling takes on a much more complex dynamic than the definition presents. Many traders are gambling without even knowing it - trading in a way or for a reason that is completely dichotomous with success in the markets. In this article we will look at the hidden ways in which gambling creeps into trading practices, as well as the stimulus that may drive an individual to trade (and possibly gamble) in the first place.Hidden Gambling Tendencies It is quite likely that anyone who believes they don't have gambling tendencies will not happily admit to having them if it turns out they are in fact acting on gambling impulses. Yet discovering what drives us to take certain actions can create change within us as the underlying motivators are discovered by the conscious mind. Before delving into gambling tendencies when actually trading, one tendency is apparent in many people before trading even takes place. This same motivator continues to impact traders as they gain experience and become regular market participants.Social Proofing Some people may not even have an interest in trading or investing within the financial markets, but social pressures induce them to trade or invest anyway. This is especially common when large numbers of people are talking about investing in the markets (often during the final phase of a bull market). People feel pressured to conform by their social circle. Thus they invest so as not to disrespect or disregard others' beliefs or feel left out. Buying some stocks or placing some trades to appease social forces is not gambling in and of itself if people actually know what they are doing. But entering into a financial transaction without a solid investment understanding is gambling, regardless of what the social media portrays. Such people lack the knowledge to exert control over the profitability of their choices. There are many variables in the market, and misinformation or disinformation within investors or traders creates a gambling scenario. Until knowledge has been developed that allows people to overcome the odds of losing, gambling is taking place with each transaction that occurs.Contributing Gambling Factors Once someone is involved in the financial markets, there is a learning curve, which based on the social proofing discussion above may seem like it is gambling. This may or may not be true based on the individual. How the person approaches the market will determine whether she/he becomes a successful trader or remains a perpetual gambler in the financial markets. The following two traits (among many) are easily overlooked but contribute to gambling tendencies in traders.Gambling (Trading) for Excitement Even a losing trade can stir emotions and a sense of power or satisfaction, especially when related to social proofing. If everyone in a person's social circle is losing money in the markets, losing money on a trade will allow that person to enter the conversation with her/his own story. When a person trades for excitement or social proofing reasons, it is likely that she/he is trading in a gambling style rather than in a methodical and tested way. Trading the markets is exciting; it links the person into a global network of traders and investors with different ideas, backgrounds and beliefs. Yet getting caught up in the "idea" of trading, the excitement, or emotional highs and lows is likely to detract from acting in a systematic and methodical way.Trading to Win, and Not Trading a System Trading in a methodical and systematic way is important in any odds-based scenario. Trading to win seems like the most obvious reason to trade. After all, why trade if you can't win? But there is a hidden detrimental flaw when it comes to this belief and trading. While making money is the desired overall result, trading to win can actually drive us further away from making money. If winning is our prime motivator, the following scenario is likely to play out: Jill buys a stock as she feels it is oversold compared to the rest of the market. The stock continues to fall, placing her in a negative position. Instead of realizing that the stock is not simply oversold and that something else must be going on, she continues to hold the position, hoping it will come back so she can win (or even break even) on the trade. The focus on winning has forced the trader into the position where she doesn't get out of bad positions, because to do so would be to admit she lost on that trade. Good traders take many losses; they admit they are wrong and keep the damage small. Not having to win on every trade and taking losses when conditions indicate they should is what allows them to be profitable over many trades. Holding losing positions after original entry conditions have changed or turned negative for the trade means the trader is now gambling and no longer using sound trading methods (if she/he ever was).The Bottom Line Gambling tendencies run far deeper than most people initially perceive and well beyond the standard definitions. Gambling can take the form of needing to socially prove one's self, or acting in a way to be socially accepted, which results in taking action in a field they know little about. Gambling in the markets is often evident in people who do it mostly for the emotional high they receive from the excitement and action of the markets. Finally, not trading in a methodical and tested system, but rather relying on emotion or a must-win attitude to create profits, indicates the person is gambling in the markets and unlikely to succeed over the course of many trades. FREE AppDownload
AmazonWe've heard that one of the best books to prepare for a "strat" interview at Goldman Sachs is "Heard On The Street: Quantitative Questions from Wall Street Job Interviews" by MIT PhD Timothy Falcon Crack. Strats — short for strategists — work on trading floors alongside the traders creating models for pricing and risk management, etc. The job description is similar to that of a quantitative analyst, but quants typically aren't on the trading floor.   In a recent blog post on the Goldman's Careers Blog, recruiter Leighton Symons explained that the bank's strat interview is heavily focused on math and candidates are also drilled with brainteasers. "It could be a question on probability theory, partial differential equations, stochastic calculus—or other aspects of math that are not related to finance," Leighton Symons said on the blog.  "Heard On The Street" features hundred of quantitative, logic, derivatives, statistics and non-quantitative questions compiled from real Wall Street job interviews. Dr. Crack's book also has a detailed answer key for how to solve the quantitative questions. "Many of the questions collected and presented here are 'classics' that appear year-after-year without fail. However, this book is definitely not for people who just want 'The Answers' to such questions. Such people are archetypal sheep in wolves' clothing, and they are quickly identified as such in an interview," Crack writes in the book's preface. There are also a bunch of entertaining anecdotes throughout the text.  For example, Dr. Crack explains how one of his students at a Goldman interview was given a pencil and a sheet of paper and asked to draw a picture of himself.  Of course, the book isn't just for those pursuing a career at Goldman.  It seems like a great resource for many people pursuing a position at an investment bank or hedge fund.  "While the book is geared towards more technical positions and does involve a fair amount of math, I would still recommend it even if you are looking for a non-technical position with a hedge fund or an i-bank, since this book contains a lot of brain teasers and logical questions that are commonly asked in all finance interviews to test how well you can think on your feet and under time pressure," reviewer "spaceman" wrote on Amazon. The book isn't cheap, though.  We were able to get a used 9th edition for about $35.  Some of the newer copies were about $89 and we saw a few that were over $100. But hey, if you get the job it's definitely worth the investment. We've included a few of the sample questions from the book below:  "How many elevators (i.e. 'lifts' if you are British) are there in the US?" "How many ping-pong balls can you fit in a jumbo jet (e.g., Boeing 747)?" "How would you move Mount Fuji?"  "Why are manhole covers round?" "Why are images in a mirror flipped horizontally and not vertically? For example, although I wear my wristwatch on my left wrist, and my reflections wears his on his right wrist, my reflection is not standing on his head." "What is the sum of the integers from 1 to 100?"  "Your bedroom sock drawer contains eight red socks and 11 blue socks that are otherwise identical. The light is broken in your bedroom, and you must select your socks in the dark. What is the minimum number of socks you need to take out of your drawer and carry into your (well-lit) living room to guarantee that you have with you at least a matching pair to choose from?" "A snail is climbing up a 10-foot pole. It climbs up by three feet every day. Each night it sleeps. While sleeping, it slides down by one foot. When does it reach the top of the pole?"  "You are given eight balls. They appear identical, but one is heavier than the rest. ...you have a pair of scales. How do you find the heavy ball?   "This is an absolute classic. A king demands a tax of 1,000 gold sovereigns from each of 10 regions of his nation. The tax collectors for each region bring him the requested bag of gold coins at the year end.An informant tells the king that one tax collector is cheating and giving coins that are consistently 10% lighter than they should be, but he does not know which collector is cheating. The king knows that each coin should weigh exactly one ounce. How can the king identify the cheat by using a weighing device exactly once?"  FREE AppDownload
Photo by Andrew Burton/Getty ImagesWilliston, North DakotaEconomists have recently been scrambling to crank up their U.S. GDP growth forecasts. "What's going on here?" asked Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere. "In a word, it's energy." In a note today, Valliere called this a huge story that's below most people's radar. As Bloomberg's Bob Ivry said this morning about the Great American Shale Boom: "Nobody Expected U.S. Oil Boom to Be This Boomy."  It's basically true — there have been lots of doubters who've argued it was all just a flash in the pan. But energy has been an amazing growth story in the U.S. for the past few years. And continues to be so today. Now, economist Ed Yardeni believes a "fracking dividend," much like the "peace dividend" that followed World War II, is about to take hold and lift the U.S. economy. He writes: The Fracking Dividend has already narrowed this US petroleum trade deficit from a recent peak of $359 billion (saar) during January 2012 to $182 billion during November 2013. The deficit could go to zero over the next couple of years. That would provide a big dividend to real GDP growth, as well as more purchasing power for Americans. Building the infrastructure to export crude oil would be another benefit, especially for capital goods manufacturers.  On Wednesday, we learned oil had helped cut the U.S. trade deficit to a four-year low. Petroleum product exports climbed to an all-time high of $13.3 billion. Meanwhile, crude imports declined to $28.5 billion, the lowest since November 2010. The petroleum deficit thus shrank to $15.2 billion in November, the lowest since May 2009.  This chart from Yardeni documents these phenomena. The units are in barrels, not dollars, and thus shows an even greater magnitude:Ed YardeniThose gains are all because domestic production continues to boom. Oil output is at 25-year highs: EIA Natgas production is at all-time highs: EIA And the EIA now projects the boom will remain mostly steady into 2020 for oil and well beyond for natural gas.   EIAOil and gas firms are now making a strong push to allow for raw crude exports, which have been banned since the '70s oil crisis. Reuters says they're not facing much opposition, and some analysts think it could help lower gas prices in the long term by releasing more supply onto the market, though it would likely raise prices in the short term.  Even if that were that to occur, they'd merely be rising back to levels we've seen before — not to new highs. That's because gas prices have been drifting lower for the past few years, leading to an outcome we've called "plateau oil."  Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna has said every $0.01 change in gasoline prices is worth $1 billion in the economy. Prices have declined more than $0.50 since 2011 highs. Chart:  FRED Most importantly, the boom has created jobs. Although the overall numbers remain modest, payrolls in the oil and gas sector have grown faster than most other parts of the economy. Here's a chart from Bloomberg economics editor Vince Golle chronicling the trend: Bloomberg We have to mention that there remain concerns about the environmental effects of fracking. Evidence continues to mount that activity associated with fracking has caused earthquakes in Oklahoma to spike, and an AP report showed the number of water quality complaints in areas with fracking activity has surged, although not all of these can be linked directly to fracking, which involves sending hundreds of thousands of gallons of water and chemicals into the ground to free up resources. But we'll give the last word to Potomac's Valliere, who agrees with Yardeni's sentiment that energy will tip the U.S. into overdrive. In a note this morning he writes:   With Washington staying out of the way (no crises, no major new fiscal headwinds), when was the last time we could say this: the risks on the economy are upside risks.  This is a major reason why Fed tapering will continue -- and it's still another reason why the budget could get close to a surplus within two years. A long time indeed.  FREE AppDownload
St. Louis FedBusiness investment (red line) has yet to accelerate, even though the Fed's main policy tool, the fed funds rate (blue line) has been pinned at zero since the recession. New research by Federal Reserve staff economists Steve Sharpe and Gustavo Suarez suggests that the outlook for business investment — a notably lacking aspect of this economic recovery — has little to do with changes in interest rates. "A fundamental tenet of investment theory and the traditional view of monetary policy transmission is that a rise in interest rates has a sizable negative effect on capital expenditures by businesses," write Sharpe and Suarez in a paper titled The Insensitivity of Investment to Interest Rates: Evidence from a Survey of CFOs. "Yet, a large body of empirical research offer mixed evidence, at best, for a substantial interest-rate effect on investment."  In the paper, the economists examine data from the quarterly Duke University/CFO Magazine Global Business Outlook survey conducted in September 2012, which asked chief financial officers across companies of various sizes questions related to their spending plans. The main findings: The vast majority of CFOs indicate that their investment plans are quite insensitive to potential decreases in their borrowing costs. Only 8% of firms would increase investment if borrowing costs declined 100 basis points, and an additional 8% would respond to a decrease of 100 to 200 basis points. Strikingly, 68% did not expect any decline in interest rates would induce more investment. In addition, we find that firms expect to be somewhat more sensitive to an increase in interest rates. Still, only 16% of firms would reduce investment in response to a 100 basis point increase, and another 15% would respond to an increase of 100 to 200 basis points. In short, most firms wouldn't invest more if long-term interest rates were lower, and the majority wouldn't invest less as long as those rates weren't more than 300 basis points higher. A sharp rise in long-term rates over the course of 2013 allowed Sharpe and Suarez to validate these results with follow-up questions asked in the same survey a year later: By August 2013, twelve months after Global Business Outlook surveyed firms on their sensitivity to hypothetical interest rate changes, long-term interest rates had in fact risen substantially; notably, yields on 10-year Treasury bonds and investment-grade bonds were about 100 basis points higher. Fortuitously, the Global Business Outlook survey for the third quarter of 2013 once again included questions about interest-rate sensitivity, including a retrospective question:  "Over the past quarter, interest rates have increased by 1%. What effect have higher rates had to this point on your capital spending [also hiring, debt financing]?" Among the 396 usable responses to this question, 9 CFOs indicated their capital spending was “reduced significantly” and 28 indicated it was “reduced somewhat”. Thus, in total, 9.3% of respondents claimed they had reduced capital spending in response, closely in line with the 10% of respondents from the 2012 survey who predicted their firm would reduce investment plans in response to a 100 basis point increase. The August 2013 survey also included this question: "If benchmark long-term interest rates increase 1% [more] by the end of 2013, will this affect your capital spending?" "For the 91% of the sample respondents that had not indicated reducing capital spending as a result of the recent 1% increase in interest rates, their responses to the forward- looking question in principle should indicate whether a total increase in interest rates (by year end) of 2% would induce a cutback in their capital spending," write the Fed economists. "Within this group, only 15 respondents, about 3.7% of the overall sample, indicated they would likely reduce capital spending as a result. This suggests even less sensitivity to a 200 basis point increase than the results from the original survey." So what does determine business investment? The Global Business Outlook survey also asks CFOs for the top three company-specific concerns they face. "The responses a firm chooses to this question might be indicative of characteristics that are likely to influence firm investment plans," write Sharpe and Suarez. "The two most commonly chosen of the standard response choices offered are concern with 'ability to maintain margins' and 'cost of health care,' flagged by about 60% and 40% of sample respondents, respectively." Read the full paper here » FREE AppDownload

Screengrab"Love of beauty is taste," said Ralph Waldo Emerson, a co-founder of this magazine. His perspective would fit snuggly in a modern corporate boardroom. A raft of new research suggests not only that good-looking CEOs are paid more handsomely, but also that they're actually better for their companies in surprising ways. Attractive CEOs have “a positive and significant impact on stock returns" when they first appear on television, according to a working paper by Joseph T. Halford and Hung-Chia Hsu at the University of Wisconsin. "Our findings suggest that more attractive CEOs have higher compensation because they create more value for shareholders through better negotiating prowess and visibility," they said. When better-looking execs appear on TV, their stock gets an exaggerated bump. Comely CEOs also snag better terms in mergers with other companies.  Blame the boards for shallowness if you like. But if economic partners, like traders and executives, are going to be suckered by good looks anyway, you might as well pay extra for it. The problem is that the right look is often valued for the wrong reasons. "Mature-looking" CEOs are presumed to be more competent, according to another study by John R. Graham, Campbell R. Harvey and Manju Puri. But while beautiful faces might actually be more valuable for their companies, there's nothing special about wizened heads or the brains inside them. "Psychology research shows that baby-faced-looking people often possess qualities opposite to those projected by their facial traits," the researchers write (and this author cheers the finding). Mature-looking CEOs aren't any better at their jobs. They're just better at looking like they're better. Paying for pulchritude isn't limited to Wall Street. Research shows that attractive people are widely perceived to be more competent leaders, harder negotiators, and smarter workers. According to Daniel Hamermesh, an economist who spent two decades researching the financial effects of being a hottie, the top third of attractive men earn 4 percent more than intellectually similar (but average-looking) men. The ugliest guys make 13 percent less. For the typical worker, that would add up to $230,000 "beauty premium" over a career. Hamermesh's work fleshes out something old and intuitive: Making decisions is hard, and we often rely on our first impressions. Some people look trust-worthy, and some people look like crooks. Some people look like they can be president, and some people are Dennis Kucinich. Cute students are rated as smarter than uglier students, older-looking people seem more mature, and taller people seem more authoritative. The economics benefits of height (particularly for men) are so widely established that the Harvard economist Greg Mankiw once cheekily suggested a Tallness Tax to level the playing field.  First impressions are short-cuts, but sometimes our instincts are off. In one study of hedge funds, Ankur Pareek and Roy Zuckerman found that managers that looked more trustworthy attracted more funds, but there was "no evidence that perceived trustworthiness predicts actual manager skill." In fact, the trusty-seeming managers generated worse returns. The same principle appears in the peer-to-peer lending market, where Enrichetta Ravina found that pretty women, in particular, get cheaper loans, despite being more likely to default. There are at least two levels of bias baked into the "beauty premium," as Daniel Hamermesh calls it. The first level is personal: We are, like Ralph Waldo, drawn to beauty and want to trust in it. The second level is strategic: Understanding that most people are drawn to beautiful faces, companies in the business of making impressions will pay a bonus for them. It might not be rational to give an attractive couple a favorable interest rate or loan term. But boards are just trying to raise their market cap by betting on the wisdom, or foolishness, of the crowd—which is repeatedly biased toward giving good-looking people the benefit of the doubt. Of all the weird financial benefits of good looks, the bloated pay packages of beautiful CEOs might be one of the least irrational. FREE AppDownload
APNEW YORK (Reuters) - New Year's rivalry among U.S. mobile operators has Wall Street worried that the industry's profits could seriously decline. After months of aggressive moves by T-Mobile US to lure customers from other carriers, No. 2 operator AT&amp;T Inc counter-attacked on January 3 by offering to pay consumers to switch from T-Mobile. Days later, No. 3 ranked Sprint Corp promised big discounts for family and friend groups. On Wednesday, T-Mobile upped the ante, saying it would pay hefty exit costs for converts. The moves by Sprint and AT&amp;T come after No. 4 U.S. operator T-Mobile, a long-time industry straggler, was able to report three full quarters of customer growth after four years of losses. While discounts are always welcomed by consumers, the intensifying competition is a new challenge to a U.S. industry long used to imposing its will on consumers, and analysts fear it could result in the loss of billions of dollars of revenue. Investors had hoped AT&amp;T and market leader Verizon Wireless would be able to shrug off T-Mobile's moves, since they already control about two-thirds of the market. AT&amp;T had previously said that T-Mobile's efforts only concerned the most cost-conscious customers, who are not its or Verizon's primary targets. AT&amp;T stayed on the sidelines for months in the face of public criticism of its services from T-Mobile's outspoken chief executive officer, John Legere. Now that the company is fighting back, even industry leaders could face tighter margins, say analysts. "The most disappointing thing is that AT&amp;T is reacting to T-Mobile," said Jefferies analyst Michael McCormack. "How long is it before Verizon reacts?" While AT&amp;T did not change its service rates, it is offering customers a $200 credit to switch to its network. The company is the easiest target for T-Mobile, which it tried to buy in 2011, since they use the same technology, so it is simple for customers to switch between services. T-Mobile U.S. is 67 percent owned by Deutsche Telekom. Their battle got more personal at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas when AT&amp;T kicked Legere out of its party, a concert featuring rapper Macklemore. At T-Mobile's own event, Legere, sporting his customary pink company tee-shirt under a leather jacket, took to the stage to make fun of AT&amp;T and its executives in a profanity-sprinkled speech. Roe Equity Research analyst Kevin Roe sees the "unhealthy market dynamic" getting worse, since he is not convinced AT&amp;T's incentives to T-Mobile switchers will end there. "There's more to come, and it will continue until AT&amp;T has market-share stability," said Roe, who believes the carrier will keep going until it can ease customer losses to T-Mobile. Competition could escalate further later on this year when Sprint, which is 80 percent-owned by Japan's SoftBank Corp, is expected to try hard to woo back customers who have left because of technical problems from a network overhaul. Some investors are still hoping for a ceasefire if SoftBank's hopes of merging Sprint with T-Mobile come to fruition. It may make a bid for T-Mobile as soon as this year. But many Washington industry experts see regulators blocking such a deal: The government rejected AT&amp;T's earlier attempt to buy T-Mobile on the grounds that the market needed four national operators. Since T-Mobile has become stronger, that decision seems to have been justified. SPECTER OF MARKETING SPENDING The day before T-Mobile made its latest offer, executives at Sprint and Verizon brushed off questions about the AT&amp;T move. "You don't really buy loyalty that well in my view, and those customers will switch back," Verizon Communications CEO Lowell McAdam said during a webcast of an investor conference on the sidelines of CES. At the same event, where he announced his own company's new promotions, Sprint CEO Dan Hesse also suggested that his rivals' moves to buy customers would be fleeting. Analysts, however, say the fight could take its toll, once consumers vote with their wallets and operators show just how hard they will fight. New Street Research analyst Felix Wai worries customer defections will rise at all the U.S. carriers, leading to higher marketing spending that eats into profit margins. Jefferies' McCormack said his biggest concern is that decreasing average monthly revenue per user (ARPU) from discounts could wipe out profits from customer additions. For example, McCormack said in a research note that adding 1 million subscribers at AT&amp;T would boost earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization by just $852 million, while a 1 percent increase of ARPU would increase EBITDA by $1.14 billion. Legere brushed off concerns about the risk to profits when asked about dueling discounts at T-Mobile's CES event. He said he would prefer to give consumers a good deal even if his company never matches the profits of its biggest rivals. AT&amp;T reported an EBITDA margin of 42 percent in the third quarter; Verizon Wireless margins were at 51.1 percent. "We can be very profitable," Legere said, "but I don't think you need to make 55 points of EBITDA margins." T-Mobile has previously set a long-term margin target of 34-36 percent. Legere also estimated that consumers could save a total of $20 billion per year if they all switched to T-Mobile, a calculation based on the other carriers' monthly user revenues. Such a sum would represent roughly 13 percent of total service revenue generated by T-Mobile's three bigger rivals in 2012. While this scenario may be wishful thinking on Legere's part, McCormack worried about the implication that industry revenue could be cut by $20 billion. "That's clearly not a healthy sign." (Reporting by Sinead Carew; Editing by Christian Plumb, Prudence Crowther and Sophie Hares) FREE AppDownload
Corporate profit margins for S&amp;P 500 companies are at all-time highs. And the bulls insist that margins are at least sustainable over the near-term. They remind us that labor market slack will keep wage cost growth limited, deleveraging will limit the impact of higher interest rates,  and increasing overseas exposure will keep overall taxes and operating costs low. Deutsche Bank's David Bianco is one of these bulls who sees net profit margins going even higher in 2014. At a breakfast on Thursday, Bianco reminded us that pension expenses will be substantially lower. Remember, during the financial crisis, asset values plunged sending pension funds deep into under-funded status. As a result, corporations had to pour increasing amounts of money into these pensions to help bring them closer to fully funded status. And that was recognized on the income statement as higher pension expenses, which put pressure on profit margins. But thanks to the help of an unexpectedly powerful recovery in stocks, these funds are nearly back to pre-crisis levels. "Pension plan funding status at 2013 end vs. 2012 end will affect 2014 EPS," said Deutsche Bank's David Bianco in his 2014 outlook note. "Our 2014E S&amp;P EPS of $119 includes $1.50 of lower pension costs, but it could easily be anywhere from a $1.00 to $2.00." That is a massive relief for corporate costs. But doesn't this just mean that the next stock market pullback will slam margins again? Not likely. Keep in mind that most companies have shifted from offering defined benefit plans (i.e. pension plans) to offering defined contribution plans (e.g. 401k plans), which puts all of the investment risks squarely on the employee. Those on pension plans will soon retire, which means pension fund managers will be scaling back risk (i.e. selling stocks and moving into bonds). Here's Bianco with more commentary: The last decade has been a long and bumpy road for managers of and investors in companies that sponsor large defined benefit pension plans. We think the number one priority of managers and desire of most investors we talk to is to put everything related to DB pensions behind them in the past. We think treating pensions as a legacy issue will be the general strategy of most sponsor company managers. Isolating pension risk and  eliminating or at least minimizing the effects to earnings and the balance sheet will take top priority. Given the strength in corporate profits, free cash flow, balance sheets and generally diminished fears of economic shocks, we think companies will take proactive steps to further improve their pension funding in 2014 and 2015. We think companies will voluntarily make deficit reduction contributions and further explore and utilize lump-sum settlements with retiring employees. The outflows fly in the face of the popular "great rotation" theme, the shift from bonds to stocks that some argue is a big bullish force for the stock market. Bianco isn't convinced these pension fund outflows won't be large enough to put the stock market at risk. ..a return to near full funding likely accelerates S&amp;P pension liability immunization: selling stocks to buy bonds. Many companies might simultaneously issue more debt to repurchase shares. We expect nearly $150bn of annual S&amp;P pension asset allocation equity outflows in 2014 and 2015 as the average equity allocation of S&amp;P 500 plans drops from 45% to roughly 30%. We do not see this as a threat to healthy S&amp;P 500 returns through 2015, but it should help slow the ascent in long-term interest rates and keep corporate credit spreads tight. A few years ago, everything about pension funds spelled trouble. It's nice to hear things have turned around. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
Chen Guangbiao is an audacious man, and not just because he wants to buy the New York Times for $1 billion (or $2 billion or $3 billion). One of China's top 400 richest people, he was estimated to have a personal fortune of worth $740 million in 2012, but how he's really made his name is by high-profile charity donations — something he brands "flashy philanthropy." One interesting insight into Chen's mindset might be to look at his English-language business card, one of a number of promotional materials he gives out to U.S. journalists. We're not sure quite how Chen got all those titles on the right, but it's incredible anyway: Adam Taylor / Business Insider    FREE AppDownload
Nuveen Asset ManagementOne of the more anticipated annual lists of market predictions comes from Nuveen Asset Management's Bob Doll, the veteran investment strategist who previously held top posts at BlackRock and Merrill Lynch. As usual, Doll sees stocks rising this year. But he expects the ride to be much bumpier than it was in 2013. "Skepticism about the durability of the equity rally remains widespread as many argue that stocks have become expensive and that profit margins are unsustainably high," said Doll. "We think those potential headwinds will limit, but not prevent gains, and perhaps cause more volatility than was experienced last year. While stocks are vulnerable to a correction any time given their recent strength and some technical deterioration, we continue to favor a moderate pro-growth posture with forward long-term potential to mid- to high- single-digit annual percentage gains." At a breakfast on Monday, Doll presented the charts behind his 10 predictions.  He also offered his longer-term forecasts.  Somewhat surprisingly, he thinks the average annual return in U.S. stocks for the next ten years will be a lackluster 6%-8%. We got a copy of Doll's presentation, which includes the charts and stats that are behind his investment framework. Thanks to Nuveen Asset Management for giving us permission to feature this presentation.
Reuters/Joe Traver2013 was a ridiculously good year for the stock market. The S&amp;P 500 had its largest gain 16 years and returned 30% to investors. The Dow had its biggest gain in 18 years. But many investors still reeling from the financial crisis, chose to stay on the sidelines and missed out on one of the biggest years for the stock market. In fact, a recent Gallup survey showed that only 52% of Americans are personally, or jointly with a spouse, invested in the stock market. This is the lowest level since 2008. Understandably, those folks are probably kicking themselves now, but are worried that a correction could be coming this year, and are antsy about stepping in at the top. "In practice you have to be empathetic," Seth Masters, CIO for Bernstein Global Wealth Management, told Business Insider in a phone interview. "Because you know saying I told you so doesn't help someone at all." So what do you do if you missed out on last year's gains? Investors make two commons mistakes after such a rally, Fran Kinniry, principal at Vanguard Investment Strategy Group, told Business Insider. They either extrapolate from last year's returns and take on too much risk. Or, they'll look at the run up not just last year, but the last five years and decide to wait till the market pulls back. Instead Kinniry said, this should serve as a "great learning opportunity" for investors to "really not engage in market timing in the first place." Instead he thinks investors should "develop an investment plan that meets their goals, objectives, and risk tolerance, and rebalance continuously to that because the only thing you can do from missing out on that return is to learn  from it." Masters thinks along the same vein pointing out that investments, by definition, are about meeting some future goal, and that people should invest depending on their future goal. That being said, there will always be risk in capital markets, but the only way to meet one's investment objective is "by growing your wealth by having exposure to return seeking assets like stocks that are risky," Masters said. "That was true a year ago, it's true today, and it's going its going to be true five years from now." Of course that doesn't mean investors should just pile into stocks haphazardly. For instance, there were some who thought they could gain equity exposure through high dividend yield stocks, which they thought had the added benefit of being safe. Instead this set them on the course of the "safety bubble," according to Masters. People overpaid for these stocks because of their perceived safety, while "what they were really doing was risky simply because the price had gotten so expensive." The thing to note as the safety bubble deflates is that investors "haven't lost gobs and gobs of money," instead, "they have suffered an opportunity cost." This is because the one virtue of safe assets is that they are relatively less volatile. So, when they do go down, they don't go down a lot, so the economic and psychological damage from the unwinding of the safety bubble is quite modest. But one thing is certain, if people do want to get back into stocks they should "recognize that they are taking a risk and don't imagine that there is a safe way of gaining exposure to stocks, there isn't. "There will be bad years as well for stocks, but by definition if you basically sit on the sidelines all the time you will for sure only get returns from cash which we know will not even keep up with inflation," Masters said. FREE AppDownload
Such pollution has had serious ramifications for China’s public health, with one recent study showing air pollution alone having caused 1.2 million premature deaths. The more developed economies of the world may think of looking down their noses at China for such lax environmental policies, but that would be hypocritical, especially since the United States, for example, was in a very similar position just four decades ago. As recently as the 1970s, air pollutants such as sulfur oxides, nitrogen oxides and tiny, lung-clogging particulates were present in the air of both the United States and Japan at the same levels they are in China right now. Japan’s first air pollution controls in 1968 and the 1970 passage of the landmark Clean Air Act in the U.S. marked the beginning of a multi-decade period of tighter pollution regulations – and the policies have been effective, to a degree. Emissions of sulfur and nitrogen oxides fell by 15 percent and 50 percent, respectively, in the U.S. between 1970 and 2000, and the air concentration of those pollutants has fallen by 40 percent over the same time period. Likewise in Japan, where between 1971 and 1979, concentrations of sulfur and nitrogen oxides fell by 35 percent and 50 percent, respectively, and have continued falling since. Now, it’s China’s turn to get tough on pollution, and Credit Suisse analysts said in a report last month that the country is about to embark on a decade-long “green cycle” of stricter regulation and investment in green technologies and infrastructure. Guided by Japan’s experience in the 1970s, the analysts estimate that total environmental spending in China during the government’s current five-year plan (2011-2015) could total 3.4 trillion yuan ($561 billion.) The effort is going to prove a burden for some and an opportunity for others. It’s going to cost companies in those industries doing the bulk of the polluting at present – particularly power plants, cement producers and steel manufacturers – a good deal of money to upgrade their facilities and production processes to comply with new air pollution regulations coming online this year and next year. Credit Suisse estimates that companies will spend 1 to 4 percent of what it would cost to build a new factory upgrading their existing plants and will see their operating costs increase between 1 and 2 percent thereafter. But a green decade in China will prove a boon to many more. “Investment in the [waste treatment] sector is not just defensive (against) economic cycles, it is also exciting with sustainable earnings growth,” the Credit Suisse analysts wrote. As China’s relentless urbanization continues, efforts to contain the environmental impact will continue as well. Officials plan to spend 244 billion yuan ($40 billion) to add 159 kilometers of sewer pipe by 2015, doubling the network’s total size compared to 2011. The country also needs new incinerators to handle the increasing amounts of trash an expanding middle class will produce. And because water and arable land are extremely scarce, any company working on effective ways to treat and recycle wastewater or to decontaminate polluted soil will find itself with ample opportunities to prove that they’ve got the goods. Cleaner Air  Considering the thick, throat-burning smog that blankets China’s major cities some days, improving air quality is one of China’s most pressing environmental concerns. In September, the Chinese government passed a five-year air pollution action plan,  and some of the toughest emission standards on the planet will begin to hit utilities, cement and steel companies over the next two years. Yes, you read that right. The country’s sulfur oxide limit for steelmakers will be between a third and one-half of what it is in environmentally conscious Europe, and coal-fired power plants will be allowed to belch out only half the air pollutants permitted to Japanese and European utilities. Of course, enforcing these stringent new laws is another story. China’s systems for monitoring compliance are inadequate, the analysts say, and the fines for breaking the rules are often too low to be a compelling deterrent. They’ve set ambitious goals in any case. By implementing tighter vehicle emission standards, Chinese officials hope that old, heavy-polluting vehicles will be off the roads by 2015 in cities such as Beijing and Tianjin, and by 2017 in the rest of the country. Officials also plan to replace small industrial boilers with models large enough to accommodate technology that reduces emissions. Finally, the government aims to gradually replace coal-powered power plants with natural gas ones and has created a dedicated fund (paid for by the coal-burners) to subsidize renewable energy projects. If implemented as planned, the new regulations could reduce annual emissions of major pollutants by 40 to 55 percent from 2011 levels by the end of 2015. That’s a big “if,” but it’s also a compelling one.  Taking into account the costs of retrofitting factories and higher future operating costs, Credit Suisse says Chinese materials companies could take an earnings hit of as much as 90 percent in the long term, with individual effects depending on a number of factors, including the portion of increased costs that each company can pass on to its customers. The cement and steel industries, in which prices are set locally, will find it easier to pass on costs than industries that deal in commodities for which prices are set in global markets, such as aluminum and copper. Cleaner Water and Soil  China’s water and soil are nearly as polluted as its air. The culprits: Factories that discharge industrial waste improperly, farms that rely heavily on fertilizers and a dearth of systems to collect, treat and dispose of garbage and wastewater. And when the water and soil are contaminated, a nation’s food supply is at risk: Dangerously high levels of heavy metals such as cadmium have been found in Chinese rice several times in recent years. Providing the new infrastructure needed to address these problems is going to be a big business. Analysts expect investment in trash incineration and treating hazardous industrial waste and wastewater sludge to grow by more than 30 percent over 2011 levels by the end of 2015, with total incremental investment of 264 billion yuan ($44 billion) during that time. China went on a wastewater treatment plant building spree between 2006 and 2012, and the number of facilities more than tripled to 3,340. But there’s still a need for more, as wastewater treatment demand should grow some 10 percent annually between 2012 and 2015. Some rural areas still need treatment plants, which will drive some of that growth. But so will simply catching up on infrastructure. Even as it churned out new treatment plants, China fell behind on constructing the sewers and pipelines that would collect and carry wastewater to the treatment centers. That means a lot of the new facilities aren’t even running at full tilt. When you sum it all up, the analysts say, China will only be addressing 63 percent of its potential wastewater treatment market and 74 percent of its municipal solid waste market by the end of 2015. Credit Suisse analysts point to four specific areas of environmentally focused businesses that will enjoy strong demand in China over the next half decade and beyond. Waste-to-energy: Producing heat or electrical energy from burning garbage is not the most glamorous business, but Credit Suisse says demand for the service will grow 53 percent on a compounded annual basis in the next few years, and thanks to government subsidies, the payback period for building new facilities is an attractive seven years. China Everbright International (CEI), which focuses on environmental projects, is the country’s dominant trash-handler right now, with facilities in coastal regions such as Guangdong, Shandong, Zhejiang and Jiangsu. But it won’t be a hegemon for long, as Credit Suisse predicts new players will be drawn to the market by the attractive economics and government sweeteners. Hazardous waste: The government has already placed a high priority on taking care of ultra-toxic industrial waste, but the market remains fragmented and local, with high barriers to entry due to the technical complexity and required regulatory approvals. That’s good for pricing, and Chinese haz-mat treatment companies currently enjoy better margins and higher returns than their global peers, the analysts say. Demand for their services should grow by 33 percent on a compounded annual basis. CEI is a key player here, too, though it only has a 2 percent market share. Competitors include Yonker Environmental Protection Co., which has extensive expertise in soil remediation, and Dongjiang Environmental Co., which specializes in recycling industrial waste. Cement treatment: Cement companies have to fire up huge kilns to heat the limestone and other materials that make up the ubiquitous building material – so they might as well use trash as an alternative fuel source. After all, it has to go somewhere. The process of burning household garbage, industrial waste and wastewater sludge during cement manufacturing is a fledgling business in China, analysts say. But because it’s relatively cheap to retrofit cement factories to run on garbage, the method could be attractive in the future – especially because it produces less dioxin, another cancer-causing chemical, than when other fuels are used. The idea has yet to really take hold, but a cement treatment joint venture between Anhui Conch Cement and Kawasaki Heavy Industries at a facility in Tongling is making a small profit, say Credit Suisse analysts. BBMG Corp., which makes cement and other building materials, runs two facilities in Beijing – one that treats sludge and another that treats industrial waste. Wastewater treatment: Finally, as China continues to struggle to provide enough water for its residents, farmers and industries, treating and reusing wastewater will only become a more urgent priority. Three key players dominate the market, led by BEW, which had more than 200 wastewater projects across China as of mid-2013. Tianjin Capital, a sewage treatment company, started out in the northern city from which it takes its name and has expanded to control about 3 percent of China’s municipal sewage treatment market. Finally, CEI shows up again as a key wastewater treatment player, with 11 plants already online and four more in the works. FREE AppDownload
More than half of the members of Congress have a net worth above a million dollars, according to an analysis by the Center for Responsive Politics. That's pushed upward by some impressively rich outliers like California's Darrell Issa, but its still a pretty wealthy group. Seth Kadish at the excellent Vizual Statistix tumblr put together a heatmap showing the wealthiest (and most indebted) members of congress out there. The Senate is significantly wealthier than the House (an average net worth of $2.79 million versus $0.7 million), and the wealthiest subgroup is Senate Republicans at $2.98 million. Vizual Statistix
Mike Nudelman/Business Insider Shafqat Islam’s phone was ringing. He rubbed his eyes and looked at the number on the screen. It said unknown, but he took the call anyway. "Hi, this is Travis," a voice said. "I know Lukas Biewald, and he said you were the only guy he knew in Switzerland." Islam, part of the tech team at Merrill Lynch Bank Suisse, sat up and wracked his brain. Biewald? He had met the man once or twice, but he certainly didn't know this Travis character. "Let's go out!" prodded the restless out-of-towner. Islam resisted. It was getting late and he was tired. He wasn't in the mood to give his night to a stranger. "Come on, I'm only in town one night!" Travis persisted. "You gotta show me Geneva!" Islam finally gave in. He hopped in his second-hand BMW, picked up Travis and took him to a favorite bar, where Islam learned a bit more about the mystery man. A tech founder named Travis Kalanick, he’d sold a startup for millions to Akamai. He was now an investor in a couple of companies, including CrowdFlower, which was run by their mutual friend. After a night of drinking and swapping tech war stories, the pair parted ways. Years later, they met again at a business event in the States. Islam had founded a content marketing company called NewsCred. Kalanick was running a startup called Uber, designed to link car services and passengers at the tap of a finger. Now that Kalanick's startup has grown into one of the world’s most admired tech companies, recently valued at $3.4 billion, Islam can’t help wondering: Was he the world's first Uber driver? "Travis pressed a button and I was his ride for the night!" Islam says now, reflecting on that fateful evening. "I wonder if he has ever put that together." Now 37, Kalanick has recently found himself anointed king of Silicon Valley, his unlikely throne, that car-service app — or perhaps more accurately, a real-time, mobile logistics company, for which the town car business is likely just the beginning. Founded just three and a half years ago, the service works like magic. Press a button on your smart phone to summon a ride. A few minutes later — during which you can chart a driver’s progress toward your location — up rolls the car. The driver doesn't accept cash, not even for a tip. Instead the app automatically charges the passenger's credit card once the transaction is complete. Then, both the customer and driver rate each other on Uber's application. (Passengers who leave a driver waiting may see their ratings fall, which can result in fewer drivers agreeing to pick them up.) TravisK/InstagramKalanick is a big fan of scribbling on whiteboards and walls. Here, he's worked out how weather affects Uber demand.Kalanick's business achievements have won him widespread respect in the tech industry. In just a few years, he has turned Uber into a tech powerhouse that sometimes generates $20 million per week. But he hasn’t done it without stepping on a few toes. Although Kalanick declined through a spokesperson to comment for this story, interviews with more than a dozen acquaintances from various periods of the entrepreneur’s life and career, most of whom asked not to be identified, painted a picture of a hyper-rational individual whose distaste for organized religion is matched only by his enthusiasm for whiteboard sessions, a driven executive whose intensity can seem off-putting. Acquaintances seem to be of two minds about him: On the one hand, many agreed he is a phenomenon. "Travis is smart," says Kalanick's former investor Mark Cuban. "Busts his ass and is a true entrepreneur. Can’t be much more complimentary than that." Equally common was the view of Kalanick as — in a word that came up again and again in interviews, "an asshole." Or as one entrepreneur who has worked with him puts it, "Travis is ego personified." Often, those impressions overlap. "Sometimes," an acquaintance of Kalanick's told Business Insider, "assholes create great businesses."   Travis Kalanick has always been the entrepreneurial type. He grew up near Los Angeles in a suburb called Northridge. As a kid, he wanted to be a spy. But his innate confidence, persuasiveness and implacability made him better suited to a career in sales, like his mother, Bonnie. Instagram/TravisKTravis' parents, Don and Bonnie Kalanick, were "rider zero" when Uber launched in Kalanick's home town, Los Angeles. She worked in retail advertising for the "Los Angeles Daily News." Kalanick's own ability to sell became apparent when he excelled as a young door-to-door salesman for Cutco knives. Kalanick's father, Don, was an engineer. His brother Cory is a firefighter; Kalanick also has two half sisters. At age 18, Kalanick launched his first business, an SAT-prep tutoring service called New Way Academy. He created a course called "1500 and over" and has claimed that the first person he tutored boosted their score by 400 points. Kalanick himself scored 1580 on his SATs, whiffing two questions in the verbal section. He’s better with numbers, and likes to say he can zip through the math portion in eight minutes. Even as a teen, Kalanick was exceptionally self-assured. He always had "his game face on" a former classmate recalls. "The fact that Travis is a good salesman — I think originally he let that be the entirety of his personality, both to his friends and within work." This person described Kalanick as a chronic hustler. "There was definitely a feeling for me that he was always trying to sell something to me, like a used car salesman. You know it's their job, but it doesn't make it any less annoying." Another former classmate was more sympathetic, describing him as "an excellent storyteller but in a good sense. He can illustrate a lot of different things. He’s also driven and opportunistic, which can be good or bad." Despite his impressive SAT scores and ambition, Kalanick stayed local for college, enrolling in the computer science department at UCLA. He looked much like he does now, with shaggy black hair and generally clad in a T-shirt. In recent years, Kalanick has been connected to a long line of beautiful brunettes. But he wasn't always a lady's man. A college friend said he "had to grow into that."  At UCLA, Kalanick studied computer engineering and joined the Computer Science Undergraduate Association, where he met classmates Michael Todd and Vince Busam, then working on a side project called Scour, meant to help users share files. The project began in Busam's dorm room, with five friends cobbling together the application, before the team moved into a house in Los Angeles' South Bay. Scour was the first popular peer-to-peer search engine for files, videos, movies, and images, employing SMB protocol to crawl people's Windows directories, index their files and let others download them. One early user was Shawn Fanning, who would go on to co-found a similar service — Napster — some 18 months after Scour came online. The startup was running on angel funding raised mostly from one of the co-founders' family members and friends, and in 1998, Kalanick came aboard as an employee, eventually dropping out of school and collecting unemployment while working for the startup full time. Kalanick often describes himself as a co-founder of Scour, which irks some of the company’s actual founders. Nonetheless, investors saw him as one, because he did so much for the company, and some of the co-founders now consider him one in retrospect. Technically, he was the company’s second employee, though was given founders stock and didn’t take a salary for the first year.  The team soon moved to a high-rise apartment building in Westwood, Club California, where Todd and co-founder Dan Rodrigues were living. Most employees worked in the living room. Kalanick worked from Rodrigues' bedroom. At one point, the apartment housed 13 Scour employees, putting a strain on the electrical system. Printing a document was sometimes enough to blow a fuse, and when a team member wanted to microwave lunch, he would often ask colleagues to power down their monitors for a minute.   "It was very, very scrappy and none of us knew what we were doing," an early Scour employee recalls. It became clear Scour had outgrown its apartment office one day after the founders reported a major hack to the FBI. A female officer showed up expecting to find a large company under siege. Instead, she was invited to squish into a tiny chair, huddled among scruffy young men who were buried in computer screens. "We all tried to convince her, 'Really, we are a serious, legitimate company,'" the source recalls. "'We have 100 servers somewhere in some data center. Don't mind the fact that we're a bunch of young kids and that this is a living room.'"   The company soon got some real traction, and before long the peer-to-peer file sharing and search service was being used by a few million people. Eventually, there was so much interest in the company that an early investor, former mega-agent Michael Ovitz (who along with supermarket kingpin Ron Burkle had invested some $10 to $15 million), threatened to sue to keep the startup from shopping itself to other venture capital firms. As it happened, the paperwork Kalanick’s team signed included a no-shop clause. Business InsiderL to R: Kevin Smilak, Craig Grossman, Travis Kalanick, Dan Rodrigues, and Michael Todd Kalanick’s role was marketing and business development, and he was dauntless in calling up anyone and everyone to push the product. He also came up with controversial yet effective guerrilla marketing campaigns. For the Scour Exchange product, which he conveniently shortened to SX, Kalanick hired a marketing company to hang bottles of personal lubricant on dorm-room doorknobs along with Scour hang tags and stickers which read, "Do not enter, SX in progress." "It was surprisingly effective at spreading awareness for Scour as well as earning the ire of various colleges," a former colleague recalls. Meanwhile, a file-sharing competitor came onto the scene. Fanning launched Napster in 1999, implementing a key innovation. Unlike Scour, which crashed frequently due to too much demand, Napster automatically made files sharable once they were downloaded. As a result, the more people used the service, the more sources there were where popular material could be found and downloaded. Scour quickly followed suit, borrowing Napster's approach. Despite Scour's initial success, the startup was a tough learning experience for Kalanick. The setbacks hardened him as an entrepreneur, as did the sometimes difficult people he had to answer to. Once, Kalanick recalled in an interview with Uber investor Jason Calacanis, he was threatened by one of his Ovitz's cronies. The former Hollywood agent, who had built CAA into a powerhouse before an ill-fated stint as president of Disney, was infamous for his hard-knuckled style (he used to hand copies of Sun Tzu’s "The Art of War" to staff members). Ovitz’s lawyer, Kalanick recounted, wanted to be sure the former executive was afforded the proper respect in Kalanick’s speech. "He basically tells me about how certain people in the industry have worked very hard to get where they're at," Kalanick recalled to Calacanis. "My life and physical well-being were essentially threatened at that table. He basically said, 'There's an alley in the back. If you fuck this up, you're going to be very familiar with it.'" Kalanick came on stage visibly shaken. According to Calacanis — with whom he shared the stage that day — he looked close to tears. Ovitz and Kalanick have since discussed the incident and moved on. The alleged encounter occurred when Kalanick was young, and perhaps it’s not surprising that he would have been intimidated. Ovitz says he found it difficult to wrangle five young founders, each with differing ideas on how to run Scour. He adds that he respects and likes Kalanick, and says no life-threat was ever delivered on his behalf. "I think there's a really good story in a person overcoming adversity," an early RedSwoosh employee says. "I think sometimes that story can get even better if the adversity is more significant. None of these things didn't happen. It's just the details. Travis is going to tell the story his way." Although users enjoyed Scour, content providers did not. Scour was making it possible for consumers to acquire their content without paying for it. Ultimately, a collection of entertainment companies sued Scour for $250 billion.   As lawsuits piled up, Scour's failure grew imminent. The final days were emotionally grueling for Kalanick. But the salesman in him was indomitable, ceaselessly working the phones to make his pitch, ever hopeful of scaring up new business. "I was getting on the phone every day still trying to make revenues because we had millions of people coming to our site," Kalanick told a group of entrepreneurs at the 2011 Failcon conference, a forum in which founders offer hard-won lessons from their business failures. "I was telling our partners [that working with us was] a strategic move. The longer I had to make that ‘strategic move’ pitch, the harder it was to get up in the morning." By the time Scour finally failed, Kalanick could barely face the workday, often spending 14 hours at a time lying in bed. "I was doing the game, fake-it-til-you-make-it, or fighting reality," he told the Failcon 2011 audience. "When you're in that failure state, it will eventually crush you."   Finally, Scour filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. The assets were divvied up in a 20-minute court session.  Almost immediately, Kalanick began plotting his next business with Scour co-founder Michael Todd, who had been consulting on the side. The pair bootstrapped their new startup, which they dubbed RedSwoosh. Kalanick has called it his "revenge business." He wanted to turn every entertainment company that sued Scour into a paying customer. RedSwoosh launched in 2000 from a small office space in Westwood, Calif. Instead of unearthing content they didn't have the rights to, Todd and Kalanick's new business focused on delivering web content to users more cheaply by allowing them to share bandwidth. They brought a few friends over from Scour, including the engineer who’d built most of the Scour Exchange service. But RedSwoosh turned out to be an even tougher challenge. By August 2001, the company was nearly out of cash and could barely cover payroll for its seven employees. A few weeks later, Kalanick had a meeting scheduled with Akamai CTO Daniel Lewin. Lewin was flying in from Boston. His American Airlines flight from Logan Airport never made it to LAX. Lewin was one of 92 passengers killed when Flight 11 crashed into the World Trade Center’s North Tower on Sept. 11, 2001. Among its other terrible consequences, the attacks of September 11th were devastating to the tech scene, accelerating the stock market crash, which resulted in a market value loss of $5 trillion between 2000 and 2002. As a result, startup funding resources dried up. REUTERS/Sara K. SchwittekKalanick had a meeting scheduled with Akamai CTO Daniel Lewin on Sept. 11. Lewin was flying in from Boston. His American Airlines flight from Logan Airport never made it to LAX.It didn’t help that RedSwoosh — a networking software company — wasn't a particularly compelling business for investors. Software wasn't a popular investment sector in the early 2000s, and the leading company in RedSwoosh's industry, Akamai, had a relatively tiny $160 million market cap. Kalanick remembers an investor telling him then, "Look man, this whole software thing is done." Kalanick and Todd had different opinions about how to keep the company afloat, which blossomed into serious disagreements. They began cutting corners to get by, in some cases pushing the ethical and legal boundaries. For instance, at one point, the company stopped withholding income taxes from employees’ paychecks — a criminal offense. Kalanick insists that Todd made this move without his knowledge, publicly blaming his co-founder for the infraction. Todd insists the decision was made jointly. As Kalanick has recounted the story: "We owed $110,000 to the IRS in un-withheld income taxes, which is a white-collar crime that pierces the corporate shell, and it doesn't matter whether you knew or not. If you're an officer of the company you're going to jail." "Travis is a very smart guy but he and I clearly have different memories on this 13-year-old detail," Todd says. And an email sent by Kalanick at the time and obtained by Business Insider appears to demonstrate his participation in the tax plan. Nonetheless, Todd insists he has no hard feelings about the incident, adding, "The important thing is that my technical idea and his execution made RS successful." In the end, neither founder did any time. Instead, Kalanick hustled together a round of financing and used most of it to pay off the IRS before the year was up. But the relationship between Kalanick and Todd was permanently damaged. For Kalanick, the final blow was when Todd secretly emailed an investor, asking him to consider what’s called an "acqui-hire" of RedSwoosh's engineering team. "My co-founder on RedSwoosh, I found out, sent an email to a VC at Sony Ventures," Kalanick told the Failcon audience. "I wasn't cc'd on this email. It was basically saying, 'Look, this isn't gonna work out. Why don't you just hire me — this is my co-founder — and the rest of the engineers. So that's what 'Et tu, Brute?' means.'" It was a nasty corporate divorce. A former employee says Todd and Kalanick were both to blame for the falling out; each made key business decisions behind the other’s back. The source also said he sided more with Todd at the time, and left RedSwoosh with a negative impression of Kalanick. "Maybe it was his way of dealing with that stress and his response to it that I just didn't appreciate," the former employee tells Business Insider. "It took me a couple of years of having nice, cordial, friendly relations with him — but not 'Woohoo, go Travis!'-type stuff — for my feelings about him to change." Kalanick's colleagues also grew tired of his tendency to spin every situation in his favor. "If somebody chooses to disassociate themselves from Travis, I don't think it's because he's a bad guy," a former friend says. "I think it's because they see what he's doing, all the selling, and they don't want to deal with that anymore."   In the wake of his falling out with Todd in 2001, Kalanick found himself living in his parents’ house, a move that seriously cramped his style. He "wasn't getting ladies," he told the Failcon 2011 audience. "It sucked." By mid-September, the company had run out of cash and Kalanick was yet again busy hustling up a round of financing. To replace Todd, he hired Rob Bowman, an engineer turned startup consultant, who became CEO until 2003. Meanwhile, all but one of the company’s engineers, Evan Tsang, departed. Many left angry, partly because they had gone various lengths of time without being paid, and partly over disputes involving stock options. "Some sort of recapitalization was attempted at one point," a former RedSwoosh employee says. "People got different option grants, where the amount of shares ballooned. There was a lot of confusion as to what stock options were worth and how people should exercise them...and a lot of people ended up feeling cheated." Eventually, Tsang, too, walked out, moving over to Google, where Todd was then employed. Fucked Company, a popular blog that chronicled the struggles of tech startups, caught wind of the resignation. Its post about Tsang’s departure was published just as Kalanick was about to sign a million-dollar deal with AOL. The dial-up behemoth saw the headline and walked away. Shortly thereafter, in April 2006, Kalanick moved what was left of the company to Thailand as a cost-saving (and rejuvenating) measure. Facebook/Travis KalanickKalanick took what was left of his RedSwoosh team abroad for six weeks as a cost-saving and rejuvenating measure. Perhaps as an indication of how blindsided he felt, Kalanick later told the Failcon audience that Tsang resigned via tweet. That wasn't possible though, since Tsang’s departure happened several years before Twitter was founded. Meanwhile, other companies were courting RedSwoosh, and Kalanick sensed a successful exit on the horizon. Microsoft showed particular interest, and one day in mid-2003, several executives flew from Redmond to Los Angeles to meet Kalanick and present him with their offer. They’d like to acquire his assets, they told him, for $1.2 million. Kalanick did the math; $900,000 of that would be put toward paying off notes and liabilities. That left just $300,000. Kalanick — who friends say rarely shows a temper — berated them relentlessly before finally ending the meeting. As disappointing as such encounters were, they helped Kalanick refine his skills as a negotiator and toughen his resolve. He could be indomitable, showing a stamina that sometimes tended toward the absurd. According to a source, Kalanick once spent nine hours at a Googler's house, trying to convince the person to join Uber. "I got really good at negotiating from a place of weakness," he told the Failcon audience. Finally, seven years of grueling work paid off. Todd, who hadn't heard from Kalanick in years, came home one day to find a package on his doorstep. Akamai was interested in buying RedSwoosh. In 2007, the server giant acquired RedSwoosh for $23 million — $19 million in stock and $4 million in earn-outs. Even those who had doubted Kalanick or bristled at his pompous style had to hand it to him. He’d made RedSwoosh a success, even though doing so required him to go more than three years without salary, sever ties with his co-founder, move to Thailand, and turn over his team multiple times. Today, Kalanick's perseverance serves as a lesson to his former colleagues. "He would get up in the morning with nobody on his team. and he still made it in the end," says a former RedSwoosh employee. "It's inspirational in a lot of ways that when things got tough and he was down to nothing, he still kept going."   Kalanick was now a millionaire, in possession of a large house, a personal chef and a thick wad of investment capital to put into other people's startups. His new home, called "the jam pad," got its name for the tendency of young entrepreneurs  Google Street ViewTravis Kalanick's Jam Pad in San Francisco. to congregate there, "jamming" on business ideas and playing Wii Tennis until the early hours of the morning. Aaron Levie, co-founder of the cloud-computing firm Box, and marketing guru Gary Vaynerchuk were among the many techies who crashed on the couch when they were in town. Before long, Kalanick began blogging about his investments and his philosophy, occasionally boasting about his new millionaire lifestyle. "Chris Sacca got a pretty killer techie crew hanging together," he wrote in January 2009 after he was invited to attend President Obama's inauguration. "The Zappos guys (Tony and Alfred), a few Google peeps (Sacca and company), VC-dudes and Twitter home slices (what up Ev and Sara), … a truly solid crew of great people is the icing on the cake. When you’ve got the kind of crew we’ve got, the party is wherever we are." Kalanick spent his first year of affluence traveling and investing. He visited Spain, Japan, Greece, Iceland, Greenland, Hawaii (twice), France (twice), Australia, Portugal, Cape Verde, and Senegal. It was during this time that he called up Newscred founder Shafqat Islam for their spontaneous night out in Geneva. In late 2008, Kalanick attended the LeWeb technology conference with Vayner Media's Gary Vaynerchuk, StumbleUpon founder Garrett Camp, and Camp's former flame Melody McCloskey. That's where he first heard the idea for Uber. One New Year's not long before, Camp and a few friends had spent $800 hiring a private driver. While Camp had made a fortune selling StumbleUpon, he still felt nearly a grand was too steep a price for one night of convenience. He had been mulling over ways to bring down the cost of black car services ever since. He realized that splitting the cost with a lot of people — say a few dozen elite users in Silicon Valley  — could make it affordable. The idea morphed into Uber, essentially the equivalent of nightclub bottle service for the taxi industry, a premium service for more high-end customers. Kalanick gives Camp full credit for the idea. "When you open up that app and you get that experience of like, 'I am living in the future. I pushed a button and a car rolled up and now I'm a frickin’ pimp,' Garrett is the guy who invented that shit," Kalanick said at an early Uber event in San Francisco. "I just want to clap and hug him at the same time." As to the rest of of Uber's founding mythology, as in most cases, it depends on whom you ask.   ***   FacebookFourth of July in 2009 with Travis Kalanick and Garrett Camp. The first prototype of UberCab — as Uber was first called  — was built by Camp and two graduate school friends, Oscar Salazar and Conrad Whelan, with participation from Kalanick, who’d been brought on as "mega advisor" to the company, according to early documentation. (Kalanick has said his official title at the time was "Chief Incubator.") UberCab was a black car service, which allowed a user to call a car by pressing a button on a smart phone or sending a text, for a price that hovered around 1.5 times as much as a typical San Francisco cab. "My job was to temporarily run the company, get the product to prototype, find a General Manager to run the operation full time and generally see Uber through its San Francisco launch," Kalanick wrote in an early post on Uber’s company blog. "Garrett and I incubated Uber at first because we thought it was like this limo company," Kalanick explained at an event in San Francisco. "We were like, 'Dude I don't want to run a limo company. I just want a car to take me around. We need to find someone who can come into a city like San Francisco and kill it. Bring a really high quality to the table, a really sound operational system and make Uber San Francisco an amazing place so that basically Garrett can ride around like a pimp." In essence, Kalanick and Camp both wanted Uber to exist, but neither of them wanted to run it. That’s where Ryan Graves came in. The recently-engaged Chicago resident had spent two years at General Electric Healthcare, spending nights and weekends on a startup of his own that never quite got off the ground. He later spent three months as an unpaid "pseudo intern" working alongside Foursquare’s business development lead, Tristan Walker, but despite what a former colleague calls his "tireless" efforts, Foursquare declined to offer him a permanent position. Then one day, he spotted a tweet: "Looking for a business development &amp; product badass," it said. It was written by Travis Kalanick. "Here’s a tip," Graves responded, tweeting back his gmail address. RyanGraves.orgRyan Graves, Travis Kalanick, and Scooter Braun at SXSW 2013.In early 2010, Graves came aboard as UberCab’s General Manager. "It’s a combination of everything I was looking for," Graves wrote of his new job.  "I’ll be working with some of the most bad ass entrepreneurs &amp; investors in the industry… I’ll be at the ground floor of a startup that has the opportunity to change the world. I found the opportunity with a little bit of luck, a little bit of right time &amp; right place, and a lot of hard work and preparing for an unidentified opportunity." The team officially launched UberCab that June in San Francisco, working out of a tiny shared office space. The app was a sensation, at least among the target demographic of Bay Area techies. Two weeks after it became available in the App Store, UberCab's 10 drivers were doing more than 10 rides per weekend night. TechCrunch co-founder Michael Arrington was an enthusiastic evangelist. "I can imagine it now – click a button and see a variety of options," Arrington wrote that summer. "A five-star rated driver 15 minutes away in a late model Prius at 2x taxi rates, or a 1975 Camaro 1 minute away with a three star rating for .5x taxi rates. Choose your car, driver and price and get exactly what you pay for. And help break the back of the taxi medallion evil empire." Shortly after the launch, Graves was named CEO of the fledgling company. Funders quickly warmed to UberCab, but they didn’t clamor to invest. As early-stage deals go, Uber wasn’t a particularly competitive opportunity. For would-be backers, the two main concerns involved whether it was scalable, and whether Graves, a relatively inexperienced entrepreneur, could run it effectively. That summer, startup investor and entrepreneur Jason Calacanis hosted an Open Angel Forum event in San Francisco's Dog Patch Labs. The evening was to be UberCab’s big chance to wow investors. The company was seeking a $1 million seed investment — the first round of funding by angel investors — at a $4 million pre-money valuation. Calacanis told the audience he was investing in UberCab. Then, another hand shot up. "I'm in for $500,000!" First Round Capital's Chris Fralic proclaimed. A bystander remembers thinking Fralic was crazy. But his firm had already solidified its investment in Uber in early July. Rob Hayes, who led the deal on behalf of First Round Capital, knew Garrett Camp from a previous investment in StumbleUpon. He had learned about Uber months prior, when he saw Garrett tweet about it. Hayes, Fralic, and First Round Capital bet on Graves. But they didn’t realize his brief turn as CEO was soon to come to a close.   RyanGraves.org"Our goal for all UberCab users, called clients, is for you to feel like a baller every time you use UberCab," Ryan Graves wrote in an early UberCab blog post. Ultimately, Uber raised a $1.25 million seed round. First Round Capital was its first institutional investor. Other investors included Chris Sacca, Kalanick's friend, who had organized the Obama Inauguration trip, and Shawn Fanning, who had been Scour's competitor at Napster. Then, in December 2010, an unexpected change: Kalanick stepped in for Graves as CEO, and Graves became Uber's general manager. The pair made the executive shuffle sound cordial. "Personally, I'm super pumped about how well-rounded the team has become with Travis on board full time,"  Graves told TechCrunch. "This is not a replacement," Kalanick wrote after TechCrunch's story. "This is a partnership between Ryan and me." Some early Uber employees scoffed when asked if the transition had been pleasant. Others say it was remarkably cordial. "The teamwork and camaraderie that you see in the company today was evident back then when they had like six people," says one person familiar with Graves and Kalanick’s relationship. "They all seemed to genuinely like each other." While handing over the CEO reins to Kalanick couldn't have been easy for Graves, he made the switch graciously. Transitioning from CEO, "requires a little bit of an ego/gut check," he said in an interview following his move to general manager. "When you spend a year investing yourself in a project, you feel pretty strongly about how it should be run or which direction it should be taken in… When Travis asked me about the transition, I told him I was excited about it. I think he was a little thrown off by that, because very few CEOs embrace their succession plan so willingly." His calm response to being benched may have saved both his job and his financial participation, now potentially worth tens — or even hundreds — of millions. A well-placed source says that had he chosen to fight, Graves could have easily become the Noah Glass of Uber. Who’s Noah Glass? Good question. Glass, the largely forgotten co-founder of Twitter, was fired by former Twitter CEO Ev Williams and had to fight to recover the stock options due him. "Unlike Noah, Ryan knew his role and knew when more experienced people were needed," said one person with knowledge of the situation. "He played nice in the sandbox and didn't have an ego whatsoever. And he carved out a nice role for himself in the company." Another person who has worked with Graves agrees. "He's a good guy who works really hard and deserves all the success he has gotten. He's a hustler." Meanwhile, no one seems to doubt that putting Kalanick in the CEO role was the right move. "There is absolutely no way this business would have gotten where it is without Travis and his arrogance," says an acquaintance of Kalanick's. "Not without him being like, 'I'm going to take over the world.' He has the Steve Jobs mentality that 'It's my way or the highway.'" Says another person who served on a board with Kalanick: "With Uber, Travis has finally found something to put his fight behind."   Not long ago, while waiting in the security line at an airport, a tech executive spotted Travis Kalanick. "Hey, where are you headed?" this person asked. "Miami," Kalanick replied with a shrug. "Gotta change a law." For decades, as the digital revolution transformed one industry after another, the taxi and limo business puttered along, rarely showing any interest in innovation (unless you consider the adoption of video in the back seat an innovation). It took a fighter like Kalanick to take on the industry’s entrenched interests and bring a tech-friendly new approach to bear. Kalanick has forced Uber into 60 cities now, generally by ignoring pre-existing laws and shrugging off the fury of taxi companies. In his wake, a slew of competitors, including SideCar, Hailo, GetAround, and Lyft have followed. Meanwhile, predecessors, like Cabulous (now Flywheel), have largely fallen off the radar. TwitterUber CEO Travis Kalanick got into a Twitter battle with Lyft CEO John Zimmer over insurance policies. The conversation ended with Kalanick calling Zimmer's company a "clone."Not that Kalanick has much patience for Uber’s competition. He once went after ride-sharing startup Lyft on Twitter, demanding information about its insurance policy. Kalanick ended the conversation with a dig: "You've got a lot of catching up to do...#clone." Kalanick's strategy with longtime industry fixtures has been reckless, and effective. He has adopted an aggressive posture, taking Mark Zuckerberg’s credo — "Move fast and break things" — very much to heart. A former colleague equated Kalanick's behavior to "swinging at the hornet's nest," sometimes escalating situations unnecessarily. Three months ago, after receiving one of many "cease and desist" letters, Kalanick posted it to his Instagram account, adding the comment: "Charming greeting card from a taxi cartel representative." Taxi companies are comprised of some intimidating figures, and they haven't taken too kindly to Uber. One former Uber employee recalls meeting with some pretty intimidating industry veterans who fit the goombah stereotype: men in their 60s wearing gold chains and rings, delivering threats. "I can't say [the taxi industry] is actually mafia-run but I was certainly taken out to a lot of really sketchy steak lunches where they'd sit on the other side of the table smoking cigars saying, 'You gotta come into this on our terms or things will happen,'" a former Uber employee recalls. "You know, 'Watch out.'" New York Taxi and Limousine Deputy Commissioner Ashwini Chhabra, who first met with Kalanick in the fall of 2010 when Uber was preparing to launch in Manhattan, acknowledges Kalanick received a less-than-warm welcome. "Is the taxi industry going to welcome a San Francisco company in with open arms because they want to disrupt the business model?" he asks. "Not by any means. I'm sure everyone they met with was suspicious in the beginning." Kalanick once lashed out publicly after Chhabra's TLC told him they couldn't allow UberTAXI — Uber’s e-hail service for yellow cabs — to operate in the city. "New York’s TLC (Taxi and Limousine Commission) put up obstacles and roadblocks in order to squash the effort around e-hail," Kalanick wrote in a blog post. "We’ll bite our tongues and keep our frustration here to ourselves." Instagram/TravisKal"Charming greeting card from a taxi cartel representative," Kalanick wrote on his Instagram account in October.On the contrary, Chhabra explained, the issue involved pre-existing contracts with companies to provide credit card processing for yellow cabs.  New York is hardly the only city whose officials have bristled at Kalanick’s approach. "I can recall numerous instances where he may have said stuff about regulators in different markets and people took it one way or the other," says Chhabra. "Their strategy has been 'try and stop us, and if you try and stop us, then we'll cross that bridge when we come to it,'" former Uber New York General Manager Matt Kochman told The Verge. "Discounting the rules and regulations as a whole, just because you want to launch a product and you have a certain vision for things, that's just irresponsible." That said, the deputy commissioner admits the hard-knuckled tactics can be effective. "That approach actually works if you want to come in and you're challenging an orthodoxy," he says, noting he personally has no hard feelings toward Kalanick or criticisms of his business style. "He's a good and tough negotiator, and when you're negotiating, sometimes there is some posturing on everyone's part, whether it's as the regulator or disruptor." Another of Kalanick’s signature moves is to enlist passionate residents to rally against authorities. Last week, at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, where Uber is not available due to a local ordinance requiring town cars to be hired for a minimum of one hour, he launched a Twitter campaign, #VegasNeedsUber, to apply pressure on officials there. The company encouraged citizens to share their experiences with Uber in other cities on social media and demand Uber be allowed in Las Vegas. Finally, Uber has to worry about its drivers — who are not employees of Uber but instead work independently or for existing car service companies. They've sued the company, threatened to go on strike, and occasionally gotten themselves arrested. On New Year's Eve, a driver associated with Uber hit and killed a 6-year-old pedestrian. Uber said it was sorry for the family's loss but maintained that the driver wasn't running an Uber errand during the accident. It essentially fired the driver, deleting him from its system. Later, when Uber was criticized for charging fares eight times higher than usual during a snowstorm, Kalanick posted an email from a concerned user to his Facebook page. "Get some popcorn and scroll down," he wrote. Lately, Uber's surge pricing model has become a source of contention for new and loyal users. While some agree with Kalanick — that raising fares is the only way to maintain a balance between supply and demand during busy times — others have pointed out that the dynamic pricing scheme challenges users’ faith in Uber at a delicate time for the company. Since Uber makes it clear to users that surge pricing is in effect before they accept rides, it hardly seems fair to blame the company for simply offering a service. And Kalanick doesn’t seem too likely to buckle. He has taunted his critics on Twitter, pointing out the use of such pricing by airlines and other industries. And in a recent interview with The Wall Street Journal that seemed to take a less hostile stance, he nonetheless insisted that surge pricing was here to stay.   For all the controversies that have accompanied Uber’s rise, Kalanick is now routinely touted as one of the world's best entrepreneurs; some have compared him to Jeff Bezos and Steve Jobs. Against all odds, he has turned Uber into a $3.4 billion business that customers fiercely love. While a lot of startups have gained popularity — and jaw-dropping valuations — without offering any clue of how they might make money, Uber is already generating impressive results. Leaked revenue figures show the company generates as much as $20 million per week. FacebookTravis Kalanick, CEO of Uber Kalanick has worked tirelessly to achieve this success. A friend remembers him spending the majority of a Vegas bachelor-bachelorette party on his phone in the hot tub. But Kalanick's form of hustling also means doing things most people wouldn't: picking fights, bending laws, challenging governments, and throwing tantrums. His ego is not to everyone’s taste. Casually dropping lines like "VCs ain't shit but hoes and tricks," as he did at Failcon, rubs some in the industry the wrong way. One investor says his firm passed on Kalanick because he didn't get along with the partners. "He came in like he was God's gift," this person said. As writer Paul Carr pointed out, Kalanick's one-time Twitter avatar — the cover of "The Fountainhead," Ayn Rand’s libertarian classic about the triumph of a Nietzschean individual, an "ubermensch," over the foolish and short-sighted masses — seemed telling. And yet for the first time in his life, Kalanick is in a position of real power. He's a perpetual underdog who is finally able to flick off the world. Many interview requests for this story were forwarded directly to him. One high-up venture capitalist, when asked to talk about the CEO, replied simply: "No freaking way." Others who agreed to be interviewed later felt skittish. He's loved, respected, feared, and loathed in seemingly equal measure. Instagram/TravisKUber is now in 60 cities around the world thanks in large part to Kalanick.Some wonder if Kalanick, increasingly viewed as a standard bearer of Silicon Valley arrogance, is the right role model for the new generation of entrepreneurs. "If Travis Kalanick is the Michael Jordan poster that young entrepreneurs have hanging on their walls, that's sad," one person said. "Being a jerk isn't 'awesome' or 'badass.'" "As much as he is inspirational, he’s controversial," a former colleague says. "If he were less brash, I don't think he would get half as far as he did." Ed Hubbard, who attended UCLA with Kalanick, and later joined Uber as one of its first employees, insists Kalanick will succeed, whether anyone likes it or not. "There’s a great argument to be made that there are founders with 'special' DNA that makes them some of the world’s greatest leaders," Hubbard says, noting that he borrowed the insight from one of his investors, Bill Burnham. "The list includes Bill Gates, Steve Jobs, Larry Ellison, Michael Dell, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, Mark Zuckerberg, etc. In my opinion Travis is going to be on that list and will be widely recognized among those tech leaders as a peer. "Maybe he’ll do it with Uber, maybe it will be another company, but I’d bet on Travis any day."   Read more of Business Insider's longform features.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Baz RatnerStanley Fischer was officially nominated Friday as a Governor and Vice Chairman of the Federal Reserve, the job Janet Yellen is vacating as she becomes Chairwoman.  While Yellen is incredibly qualified, it's exciting to have Fischer beside her.  He's a legend in central banking and economics circles, and for good reason. Fischer's a highly accomplished monetary economist, and excelled as Israel's central banker.  When rumors of his nomination cropped up, Morgan Stanley's Vincent Reinhart wrote that it would create a "Fed Dream Team."  There's a longer profile of Fischer from the Washington Post's Dylan Matthews that's worth reading, but here are a few of the reasons his nomination is great news. It's difficult to think of a more qualified or interesting choice for an essential job.  FREE AppDownload
