FREE AppDownload
    Marc and Greg Sherry are the brothers behind Old Homestead, one of NYC's most beloved steakhouses. The restaurant is known for being one of the city's oldest, having started out as The Tidewater Trading Post in 1868. It's also known for having the most expensive cut of meat in town, a $350 piece of Wagyu beef from Kobe, Japan. "We wanted to find a steak that took it to the next level," said Marc. "We flew to Japan, tasted it, and absolutely flipped." That was 1991. To get that amazing steak to the States, Marc and Greg had to work with the Japanese and American governments to ensure that the meat was up to U.S. health code. After that, the Wagyu sold itself. Produced by Daniel Goodman FREE AppDownload
Nicholas A. Tonelli/flickr FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Sign up here »  The Percent Of Firms Beating Earnings And Revenue Forecasts Keeps Dwindling (Bespoke) Here are some charts from Bespoke showing the percent of firms who beat earnings and revenue forecasts in Q2. The recent trend is clear: downward. "Early on this season, the earnings beat rate was holding right around the 60% level for US stocks, but last week it took a nosedive down to 57.4%.  The largecaps report early on during the typical reporting period, while smaller cap companies typically report towards the end.  Last week, the earnings beat rate was weighed down by a large number of smaller cap names missing estimates.  If the current beat rate holds through Thursday, this would actually be the weakest reading we've seen during an earnings season since the bull market began in early 2009." Here are the charts: Bespoke Bespoke The Two Most Likely Correction Scenarios (Oppenheimer) Oppenheimer's Ari Wald sees a near-term correction as inevitable. It is likely take one of two forms: "In our view, a seasonal bull market correction has become a question of when, not if. Our top concern is that internal breadth is narrowing. We believe whether weakness in the S&amp;P 500 develops now or later depends heavily on the Russell 2000. We see two possible scenarios developing: Correction Now Scenario: The Russell 2000 fails to hold support and the S&amp;P 500 consequently follows the Russell 2000 lower. Correction Later Scenario: The Russell 2000 bounces from support and incites another bout of S&amp;P 500 strength, a more glaring multi-month divergence forms, and a deeper correction ultimately ensues." (emphasis his) We Are Only In The Middle Of The Business Cycle (Wells Fargo) The above scenarios for stocks not withstanding, we are likely only in the middle of the business cycle, according to Wells Fargo. In a new note they write: "Through our exploration of the cyclical trend in corporate profits, we have examined corporate profits as a share of nominal GDP. Using this benchmark and separating out the cyclical and trend components of the growth in corporate profits, we find that corporate profits can provide a good indication of the mid-point of a business cycle and that it appears we are very close to the mid-point of the current business cycle. Furthermore, two key economic variables can provide insight into both the corporate profits cycle and the business cycle. In particular, labor productivity and unit labor costs can be used to identify mid-points in a business cycle. Based on the last three economic expansions, the point at which productivity growth begins to exceed corporate profit growth has typically signaled the mid-point of a business cycle, which current data suggests may be near." There Is Not Enough Private Capital In The Housing Market (Digital Risk)  Tom Showalter, Chief Analytics Officer at Digital Risk, makes two key points about the unimpressive housing market: There's not enough private equity in the market, and that it's probably a symptom of the larger malaise. In a new note he writes: "Government guarantees are too strong a disincentive to private capital. There is virtually no private capital at work in this market and that is likely to remain. Overall, the government is probably too active, which constrains the industry’s ability to react and adapt and develop markets." He continues. "The slow housing market is a symptom of economic malaise, not a cause. Building more houses, making more loans, extending HARP and related programs can’t fix the problem - that needs to be done with fundamental economic progress." FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockSome restaurant etiquette is just common sense: Don't speak when your mouth is full, don't tell rude jokes during the meal, and always cover your mouth when you cough. Others can be a bit more nuanced. Who pays after a business meal? Where do you put your napkin when you stand? And how exactly does one order the perfect bottle of wine? In honor of National Etiquette Week and our just-published list of the 45 best restaurants in America, we decided to clear up some common etiquette questions. Patricia Napier-Fitzpatrick of The Etiquette School of New York and author of "The Art of the Meal: Simple Etiquette for Simply Everyone" shared some guidelines for dining at expensive restaurants. FREE AppDownload
When visualizing your future, you probably see a lifetime of professional and personal accomplishments during your working years, punctuated by a brief, gold-tinged period of retirement. According to Tim Urban from Wait But Why, you're way off. On his site, a self-described "procrastination website," he illustrates the typical American lifespan broken up by years, months, and weeks. Check it out: Wait But Why You might notice something interesting (besides the gap between becoming a legal adult and being legally allowed to drink alcohol): Retirement takes up a lot of space. A quick glance shows that after your working years, retirement is the stage of your life in which you spend the most time — and a painstaking counting of weeks/squares reveals that the typical American spends more time retired than he does in his entire childhood, grade school, and college combined. Why are we telling you this? Because we can't say too often — or too vehemently — that retirement savings should be a key financial priority for just about everyone. In fact, some experts estimate that $1 million might not be enough to sustain you during post-work years. The best thing we can do to avoid years of financial angst is to start saving today: Check out this chart that shows the difference between someone who starts saving at 25 and someone who starts at 35.  FREE AppDownload
WikipediaStocks had a stellar day. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
The super rich come from all over the world to buy a place in New York City, so realtors are constantly looking for ways to make their properties stand out. It's a dog eat dog world. That's why CORE Group's Raphael Chejade-Bloom and Jarrod Guy Randolph commissioned this 360 degree tour of their new listing $25 million condo listing at 845 United Nations Plaza. "We found Jason Sievert (360 Virtual Visions) in California and were just blown away," said Chejade-Bloom in an e-mail. "The tour enhances the detail quality in a singular way." Using this tool you get to see every angle of this 4 bedroom, 4.5 bathroom stunner. Zoom in and out. Click on the floor plan to go directly to certain rooms, or just wander through the apartment moving your mouse up and down to check the space out from ceiling to floor. You can also click on the little "i" icons to get details about specific pieces of furniture, like the chandelier in the Great Room/Kitchen where the tour starts. Have fun. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersChristine Lagarde, International Monetary Fund Managing Director, speaks to Syrian refugee student at Alimate school in Mafraq in this file photoBOSTON (Reuters) - The managing director of the International Monetary Fund on Monday canceled a planned commencement speech at one of the most prestigious U.S. women's colleges after students protested honoring an organization that supports "patriarchal systems." Smith College in Northampton, Massachusetts, said that Brown University president Ruth Simmons would instead address graduates on Sunday after students circulated an online petition asking that Christine Lagarde, a French politician who has headed the IMF since 2011, be un-invited. The petition noted Lagarde's achievement as the first woman to run the IMF but criticized the organization. "The IMF has been a primary culprit in the failed developmental policies implanted in some of the world's poorest countries," read the petition, which gathered some 479 signatures. "This has led directly to the strengthening of imperialist and patriarchal systems that oppress and abuse women worldwide." The IMF said that Lagarde - whose predecessor Dominique Strauss-Kahn resigned after he was accused of sexually assaulting a maid in a New York hotel - did not want to become a distraction to the graduation ceremony. "We did not want the IMF participation to divert attention from the remarkable achievements of the graduating students on their special day," an IMF spokeswoman said. Smith President Kathleen McCartney said she worried the protests against Lagarde could have a chilling effect on speech. "An invitation to speak at a commencement is not an endorsement of all views or policies of an individual or the institution she or he leads," she wrote in a letter to the campus. "Such a test would preclude virtually anyone in public office or position of influence." Smith, opened in 1875, is one of the "Seven Sisters" colleges that served as female alternatives to the Ivy League at a time when those schools did not admit women. It has about 2,500 students and its alumnae include women's rights activist and journalist Gloria Steinem and pioneering television chef Julia Child. Strauss-Kahn denied any wrongdoing in the New York sexual assault case. Criminal charges against him were dropped and he has settled a civil suit brought by the maid. Lagarde is not the only powerful woman this year to pull out of a planned U.S. university commencement speech under fire. Earlier this month, former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice reversed course on a planned graduation speech at Rutgers University of New Jersey amid student protests over her role in the Iraq war. (Reporting by Scott Malone; Editing by Barbara Goldberg and Andrea Ricci) FREE AppDownload
Google FinanceThe Dow Jones Industrial Average and S&amp;P 500 are on their way to close at new highs. The Dow actually set a new intraday high of 16,699.55 earlier today. On Friday, the Dow set an all-time closing high of 16,583.34. The S&amp;P 500 is above its record closing high of 1,890.90, which occured on April 2. Currently, it's just 2 points from its all-time intraday high of 1,897.28. The Nasdaq is having a huge day surging by 1.7%. The bruised up high-growth, momentum stocks are bounding with TripAdvisor up 6.1%, Salesforce.com up 5.8%, Netflix up 4.3%, and Facebook up 3.5%. Biotech giants Regeneron Pharmaceuticals and Alexion Pharmaceuticals are up 4.5% each. You'll have a tough time singling out one thing driving today's rally. In his NYSE MAC Desk Mid-Day update note, Rich Barry identifies six possible catalysts. From his note: 1) The short sellers clearly piled-on the big momentum/high beta names last week. Friday afternoon's reversal in these deeply wounded stocks continued with a vengeance this morning as we're seeing a bit of short squeeze occurring. Momentum names have finally found some stability as the shorts are taking their lumps. 2) Bonds yields are higher across the globe as investors pull back on the 'flight-to-safety trade' and add to risk positions. The 10-year US Treasury yield is safely above 2.60%, now at 2.652%. 3) Stock indices across Europe, China and India had a strong showing overnight. 4) Geopolitically, the Ukraine situation is relatively quiet, despite the EU declaring the recent referendum illegal. 5) Profits from the current reporting period have exceeded expectations, while the outlook for the U.S. economy appears to be increasingly positive. (Also, forward guidance has been broadly positive for the remainder of 2014.) 6) The global economy is accelerating, central banks are dovish, companies are making acquisitions and it’s hard to see what could keep the market down from current levels. Another bullish force comes from India, which is in the process of wrapping up the biggest election in history. According to new exit polls, Narendra Modi is set to become the country's next prime minister. Modi is widely known as the pro-growth candidate. But some experts warn that we're all being a bit too optimistic. "He's selling a dream," said Ruchir Sharma, head of emerging markets and global macro at Morgan Stanley Investment Management. "We don't have specifics as yet." It's worth pointing out that indexes like the Dow and S&amp;P 500 are heavily skewed toward large- and mega-cap companies. According to FBN Securities' J.C. O'Hara, the average stock in the Russell 2000 and Nasdaq Composite, which include many small-cap companies, is down by more than 20% from its 52-week high. FREE AppDownload
In the rates market we’ve seen flattening, but it’s been of the bullish variety. Thirty year yields have fallen 60+ basis points while two year yields are flat. This was supposed to be the season of an economic breakout, where slow and steady employment gains eventually led to wage growth &amp; reduced economic slack. Things are not all bad as loan growth continues to accelerate, initial jobless claims trend lower, and broader unemployment metrics (such as U6) hit post recession lows. What’s clear is that this is a meager economic recovery that nobody is very proud of. Fortunately or unfortunately however, this economic recovery has given both bulls and bears just enough data to continue holding their beliefs and arguing fervently. The Frustration in Fixed Income The root of the problem appears to be the volatility that has been sucked out of the market via the Zero Interest Rate policy and QE. The Merrill Lynch Option Volatility Estimate “MOVE Index”, a metric measuring interest rate volatility, is at a near all time low as shown in the chart below. While many money managers anticipated a weakening Agency MBS market during the ongoing Fed tapering, the opposite happened and they are now trading at historically tight spreads. Large funds such as the PIMCO total return fund positioned for longer term rates to rise as their duration exposure was centered on the 1-5yr part of the curve. So far it’s been the long end which has strengthened and funds hiding out on the front end of the curve have lagged competition. Bloomberg, Inside Investing JP Morgan, Inside Investing Investors and strategists aren’t in love with high yield—nor are they counting on price appreciation—but they seem to reckon they can collect coupons since a turn in the credit cycle doesn’t appear imminent. They reason that with current annual default rates under 2% the actual loss adjusted yields are reasonably attractive. This isn’t sound logic, but the reality is that there’s few places to get 6%+ yields and going with the crowd is a safe career move in many respects. Given that, buying this type of paper in search of a “normal” return is logical from their perspective today even if it might seem crazy in hindsight. To me, this type of logic appears to be a means of justification an asset class which no longer has an attractive overall risk reward. Outsized Returns Require Leverage Hedge funds looking for outsized returns in fixed income have had to turn to other methods. Gone are the days you could broadly throw money at a fixed income sub sector such as last cash flow subprime and receive a double digit loss adjusted yield. Some investors are now finding spots they view as cheap and leveraging them through structure. An interesting example of this came last month, when I was shown a potential bank subordinated debt CDO. The deal would be set up so that a hedge fund could get leverage on smaller, less liquid pieces of bank subordinated debt which they presumably view as cheap. The underlying collateral was subordinated debt yielding approximately 8%. The structure would have two classes: the hedge fund owned equity tranche which is the bottom 50%, and the senior notes which would be paid Libor + 350bps. Essentially, this fund would earn 12%+ while being twice leveraged to the bank sub debt collateral. The senior note holders would get an investment grade rated bond with 50% support and a 3.8%+ floating rate yield. Also of interest was a recent non-government backed Mortgage Backed Securities deal “re-remic” proposed by a well known “too big to fail” bank. They were aiming to resecuritize a 2006 mortgage bond which had 10yr interest only loans about to reset and current LTV’s in the 150% range. The high current LTV’s obviously mean these are homes where mortgage holders are still substantially underwater. These loans still have a high probability of default, thus it trades materially cheaper than other bonds. Like the example above, the new bond would have a senior bond and a support bond. The investor who was behind creating this security had the TBTF bank create this so they could have leverage on one of the few remaining areas of non-agency MBS that had juice left in it. The support bond was priced at about forty cents on the dollar while the senior bond was trading at par. Investors can no longer achieve certain return hurdles with the current environment and thus are forced to turn to leverage. The CDO and re-remic are just a few of the examples of this going on today. What does this all mean?  The issue of course is timing. While many segments of fixed income appear rich and arguably have very poor risk reward characteristics, there’s no hard and fast rule that they have to “normalize” anytime soon. The credit curve has flattened dramatically and each incremental unit of risk taken by investors is being compensated with fewer basis points of yield. It’s conceivable that carry trade investors can continue clipping coupons without a broad selloff for the foreseeable future. Speculating on the impact of Fed policy on markets is fun, but we should have a healthy dose of humility and realize we are in uncharted territory. Spread risk is now more pronounced across the markets including in munis where historically wide muni ratios have normalized, and Agency MBS where low volatility &amp; issuance have tightened spreads. Spreads feel like they’re in a perpetual grind tighter, so investors need to know how much they’re getting paid for incremental risk and ensure it’s commensurate considering the range of outcomes are so broad &amp; unknown. FREE AppDownload
BTIGPetra Nemcova works the phones for BTIG in 2013.Once a year you can call your guy at equities trading firm BTIG and get a supermodel on the line. Or it could be a New York Yankee or a New York Giant. The list of celebrities is long. It's all for an annual event taking place on Tuesday in New York City and San Francisco called Commissions for Charity. The commissions from every trade BTIG executes that day will go to over 200 charities such as Project Sunshine. Last year the firm raised $4.5 million. "Wall Street gets a bad rap for the greed and excess ... but I think this is one of the good sides of Wall Street," said BTIG cofounder Steve Starker.  This year celebrity traders include baseball star Barry Bonds, former New York Yankees star pitcher Mariano Rivera, New York Giants quarterback Eli Manning, model Petra Nemcova, Padma Lakshmi, Bridget Moynahan, and others. It all starts at 11 a.m. EST. The event has come a long way since Starker and his cofounder Scott Kovalik started it 12 years ago. Back then there were five traders on the task, and the firm raised $450,000. As the firm grew, the event grew with it. Now BTIG is an international firm with 460 employees, but Starker says this event helps maintain the small, family feel he's tried to engender. He thinks it's important to keep in mind that everyone who works at BTIG isn't just a Wall Streeter; they're moms and dads, uncles and aunts, brothers and sisters. Those roles matter. "This firm is about culture," Starker told Business Insider "We're not a punch-the-clock kind of place." That isn't to say BTIG isn't a competitive place. One look around the office and you still get the impression that Starker and his team are in a race. It's energetic and loud. Starker isn't in his office much; he's out on the floor commanding the troops. BTIGC.C. Sabathia of the New York Yankees trades with BTIG's Bobby Parisi.And on Tuesday those troops will be out crushing it as hard as they can. BTIG does four times its normal trading volume on charity day, even though traders are still battling the same market they do any other day. Sometimes the waters are even choppier than normal. In 2010, the event took place the same day as the so-called Flash Crash, when the market dropped 9% in the blink of an eye for reasons Wall Streeters still argue about. Not that it was the craziest thing Starker has ever seen in his career. His first day of trading was on Black Friday in 1987. Talk about a rough start. This year's celebrity traders better hope that Tuesday isn't nearly as historic. We've got the list of everyone participating below. Good luck!   FREE AppDownload
In my opinion, while now may actually be a good time to trim positions and lower risk, the calendar month isn’t the reason why. One of the most common findings in behavioral finance is that humans have a need to reduce complex systems to simple formulas. To that end, many investors find comfort in the notion that the time of the year, i.e. seasonality, is a viable investment strategy. As I’ve written previously, I believe the significance of the calendar has been vastly overstated, with investors too often seeing patterns where none exist. In fact, with the exception of September, a consistently negative month for stocks, most seasonal biases are either functions of a certain time period or are insignificant when you adjust for normal market volatility. The same can be said for “sell in May and go away.” A cursory glance would suggest that there is some evidence behind this rule. Looking at S&amp;P 500 monthly data going back to 1927, history seems to support the notion that returns are indeed weaker in the summer and early fall. Over that time period, the average monthly index return in the May-September period has been 0.35%, net of dividends, while the average return for the other months was 0.78%. However, the real culprit is September. Since 1927 the average return for September is -1.07%, significantly below the average for all the other months. If you repeat the exercise looking at May through August, the average monthly return is 0.70%, close to the average for all the other months. In other words, while September does tend to be unusually weak, the conclusion doesn’t extend to the entire summer. Market performance so far this year also provides a good cautionary tale of why seasonality shouldn’t be the principal driver for investment decisions. The market suffered through a horrendous January, typically a strong month, and then enjoyed a strong rebound in February, historically one of the weakest months of the year as fundamentals trumped seasonal effects. But while I don’t believe that the calendar should drive investment decisions, ironically the conclusion to “sell in May” may not be wrong this year. As I have discussed in recent weeks, investors remain complacent, with volatility bouncing around historic lows. While the U.S. economy appears to be stabilizing and earnings are okay, neither is providing a strong catalyst for equity markets. With valuations, at least in the United States, at the upper end of their historic ranges, investors may need to see better bargains to draw new money into the market. As such, this May probably isn’t a bad time to trim positions and lower risk: not because of the calendar, but because there are few bargains left. Sources: Bloomberg, BlackRock Research FREE AppDownload
Oli Scarff/Getty ImagesFor people in their mid-20s to early 30s who have finished their education and are starting their careers, figuring out where to live can be difficult. With local economies varying from place to place and recent grads potentially looking for a partner to start a family, it's good to be around other people in your age range. To try to figure out where newly minted young professionals should live, we evaluated the 200 largest metropolitan areas in the U.S. on a variety of measures that might be important to recent grads. We used six measures to evaluate the 200 largest metropolitan areas in the U.S. From the Census Bureau's 2012 American Community Survey, we took the share of the population of each city that had young adults between the ages of 20 and 34, the percent of people who had never been married as a proxy for single people, the share of the population with a bachelor's degree or higher, the median earnings for a worker in the city, and the percentage of rental households that paid less than 35% of monthly income on housing expenses as a measure of apartment affordability. We also took the March 2014 unemployment figures for each from the Bureau of Labor Statistics' Local Area Unemployment Statistics. Each city was given a ranking score from 0 to 100 for each of these measures, and then those rankings were averaged together to find the final ranking.  FREE AppDownload
Moody's will review Ireland at the end of this week and there is a reasonably good chance that it revised its rating higher again. Moody's Baa3 rating is equivalent to BBB-, which lags behind both S&amp;P and Fitch which as Ireland as a BBB+ credit. BBH's sovereign rating model suggests Ireland is really a A- credit. It is possible Moody's upgrades Ireland by two notches, but typically as recoveries are slower than the downside of a credit cycle, rating agencies tend not to upgrade by two steps. However, our point is that the direction and is there. Ireland's 10-year bond yield fell below the similar UK yield last week and the UK premium has risen another 3 bp today to eight basis points. Despite some profit-taking in other peripheral bond markets as the euro weakened after Draghi's comments, holding out the strong possibility of action at the June ECB meeting, Irish bonds held in best. The 10-year yield finished last week at what appears to be a record low yield of 2.65%. Ireland boasts among the strongest composite PMI readings in the area at 60.8. The time series is short and only go back to mid-2011, but the composite PMI is the highest on record. Although the financial sector has not fully healed, the economy is regaining its (Celtic) tiger moniker. In March, the most recent data available, shows industrial output up a little more than 10% from a year ago. Retail sales in March were up almost 9% over the year. It has been able to achieve this economic performance without generating much price pressures. Using the harmonized methodology, Ireland's April CPI stood at 0.4% year-over-year. Ireland's most recent inflation peak was in August 2012 at 2.6%. While inflation has fallen 220 bp, the 10-year yield is off about 140 bp. This leaves the simply real rate (nominal yield minus current inflation) actually higher now than a couple of years ago. We look for further profit-taking on the European peripheral bond markets in the coming days. The technical tone has deteriorated. We see modest risk that both the April inflation and Q1 GDP figures for the euro area due later this week are reported on the high side of expectations. We also suggest that US economic data and technical considerations also favor higher Treasury yields, which could also add to the corrective pressures in the peripheral bond markets, including Ireland. Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
Mass destruction from Manhattan to Connecticut and beyond. This is what would happen if an asteroid smashed into New York. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
India's BSE Sensex hit a record high of 23,572.88 Monday, rising as much as 2.5% on the back of exit polls that show that Narendra Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will win India's general elections. A lot is being expected of opposition leader Modi, after a Congress party led coalition government has seen India's GDP growth at ten-year lows. Morgan Stanley Investment Management's Ruchir Sharma has pointed out that Modi could win even if two-thirds of India didn't vote for him. Of course one should remember that Indian polls have been very wrong in the past. In 2004, most polls had forecast that the incumbent party would return to power, but JP Morgan's Toshi Jain pointed out in a note published last month, that the incumbent won far fewer seats than expected and "the Sensex crashed 11% the day after the results and the rupee lost 3% of its value in the election month." At the time the error was blamed on the fact that polls hadn't fully captured the mood in rural India. But in 2009, the incumbent won more seats than expected, and markets didn't anticipate this move. "Equity markets rallied whopping 17% in a day, triggering circuit-breaker and the rupee surged 4% in the election month," wrote Jain. Jain has pointed out that the existing forecasting challenges in India have only been made more complex by the emergence of the "Aam Aadmi Party whose success in the recent state elections in Delhi was underestimated." So, we'll keep our eyes peeled as the votes are counted on May 16. Here's a look at how the BSE Sensex has traded: Yahoo Finance/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
Most economists and stock market strategists agree that a boom in capital expenditures — that is, business investment — will be the next major catalyst to economic and earnings growth. But since the financial crisis, most companies have deployed excess cash toward building up their balance sheets. And with growth prospects limited, many companies have also opted to return cash to shareholders in the form of buybacks and dividends. But according to a new survey conducted by BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, investors would much rather have companies use that cash via capital expenditures (that is, business investment). These expenditures could include the financing of both maintenance and growth projects. "More than ever, investors are agitating for companies to invest in growth instead of using their cash for buybacks, dividends, or balance sheet repair," said strategist Savita Subramanian. "BofAML’s Global Fund Manager Survey suggests that 58% of investors currently prefer capex over other forms of cash deployment — a record high in the history of the survey data (since 2002)." Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Research And it's not just talk. "As valuations have risen, companies engaging in significant share buybacks have begun to underperform, in stark contrast with the outsize gains we saw during 2012 and most of 2013," noted Subramanian referring to the chart below. "This contrasts with the recent outperformance of companies that are investing in growth." In other words, investors may be punishing companies for buying back stock. Bank of America Merrill Lynch"The market has spoken: NO MORE BUYBACKS," says Subramanian. Everyone's been writing about capital expenditures lately. Perhaps 2014 is when the boom finally happens. FREE AppDownload
White HouseThe FT's Peter Spiegel is out with an in-depth chronicle of the three nights in November 2011 when Western leaders nearly blew up the Eurozone. Among the more remarkable anecdote in the piece concerns the role President Barack Obama played in mediating the negotiations. Previously, Obama had the reputation among European officials for being mostly aloof to the continent's affairs, as he focused on Iraq and Afghanistan. But U.S. officials tell Spiegel that France, the European Commission and the European Central Bank "frequently dragged" the White House into Eurozone talks to serve as a counterweight to German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who was resisting putting up more German equity into bailing out sovereigns in the Eurozone's periphery.  When Obama did finally engage, they were stunned by his mastery of the dossier. Eventually, he came to head the negotiations, at least over the session Spiegel covers: ...When eurozone leaders were summoned again by Mr Sarkozy at 9.30pm that night in Cannes, several were surprised to find Mr Obama chairing the meeting. “It was strange,” said a member of the German delegation. “It was also a signal that Europe was not able to do that; it was a sign of weakness." But Spiegel says Obama and French President Nicolas Sarkozy ended up pushing too hard on Merkel, to the point where she basically broke down. Here's how it went down late one night in Cannes “Das ist nicht fair.” That is not fair, the German chancellor said angrily, tears welling in her eyes. “Ich bringe mich nicht selbst um.” I am not going to commit suicide.  ... The emotional outburst appeared to temper the American and French demands for an agreement there and then. “He saw that he went too far,” one European in the room said of Mr Obama. As the meeting adjourned, White House photographer Pete Souza snapped the above photo showing Obama giving a big brother-type squeeze to Merkel in an apparent gesture of reassurance. "The image adorned the walls of the West Wing for months," Spiegel says. It ended up taking many more months for to resolve the crisis, and Spiegel leaves us with a cliffhanger of how negotiations proceeded from here — although we know the Eurozone stayed together. Read Spiegel's full post here » FREE AppDownload
SBANorth Carolina's Triangle Rock Club team.For the past 50 years, the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) has celebrated the nation's entrepreneurs and small-business owners during its annual National Small Business Week, which kicks off today. In addition to events, panels, and talks that happen around the U.S., the SBA names winners for Small Business Person of the Year from the 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and Guam. From this group of 53 outstanding entrepreneurs, one is chosen as the national winner on May 16. The SBA, which provides American small-business owners with loans, federal contracts, and strategic counseling, selects the winners based on a handful of factors, including the business' staying power, growth in number of employees, sales growth, innovation in the field, and contributions to the community. The SBA defines a small business as one that is independently owned and operated, organized for profit, and, depending on the industry, has a maximum staff of 100 to 1,500 employees and revenue of $500,000 to $20 million. This year's winners are creating jobs, driving innovation, and carving out niche markets. Take South Dakota's Ryan McFarland, who created a safe bicycle alternative for young children that brought in $10 million in sales last year, or the New Jersey-based family business Kiran Gill, an environmental firm that has grown revenue an average of 50% annually to $13 million. These entrepreneurs show that a smart strategy, a little luck, and a lot of hard work can still pay off. FREE AppDownload
CorcoranSome people just don't know how to appreciate a deal. According to Page Six, billionaire hedge fund manager Steve Cohen — whose hedge fund S.A.C. Capital pleaded guilty to insider trading last year — can't unload his Upper East Side duplex penthouse, and it's upsetting him a great deal. From Page Six: One source tells us, “Cohen hasn’t had a buyer, and he blames his broker. Furious is not the word. He’s had enough.” But another source sniffed, “The lack of a buyer might be because some feel the place might have some bad karma.” The apartment has been on sale for over a year, and has already seen one price chop, from $115 million to $98 million. What more must Cohen give? Corcoran has the details of the 9,000-square-foot, four bedroom, 5.5 bathroom apartment at One Beacon Court. It's definitely impressive, especially considering Cohen bought the space for a mere $24 million. Look and see for yourself. FREE AppDownload
Part of the bump can be attributed to analyst Robert Peck of SunTrust upgrading Twitter from neutral to a buy with a $45 price target. Even though investors have been dumping the stock based on fears that monthly active users (MAUs) aren't growing quickly enough, Peck says that's not a problem. Twitter will never be as big as Facebook, he says, but that's not cause for concern: One of the common comments we hear from investors is "with Twitter’s MAU growth slowing, Twitter will never be as big as Facebook" (FB, Buy, $72). While that may be true, we ask, "does Twitter need to be as big as Facebook for the stock to work?" Based on our calculations, we believe one can justify buying the stock at these levels solely predicated on Twitter continuing to narrow the 50% monetization gap to Facebook, while still assuming user growth deceleration. Peck also says Twitter has solidified itself as "one of the few platforms of the internet," meaning it is a stable just like Facebook, Google, Amazon, etc. We are upgrading Twitter from Neutral to Buy with a $45 year end 2014 target. We believe Twitter is one of the few Platforms of the Internet (Google, Amazon, Facebook, LinkedIn) that has a long runway in its core business (owning the "Interest Graph"). Platforms of this scale are unique assets that provide interesting optionality over time. Peck's call carries a lot of weight. He was the analyst who put a $50 price target on Twitter before the IPO. He was also one of the first analysts to downgrade the stock in December after it finished its monster run right after the IPO. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMen walk past a hoarding of Hindu nationalist Narendra Modi, the prime ministerial candidate for Bharatiya Janata Party, outside the party headquarters in New DelhiNEW DELHI (Reuters) - Hindu nationalist Narendra Modi is set to become India's next prime minister, exit polls showed on Monday, with his opposition party and its allies forecast to sweep to a parliamentary majority in the world's biggest ever election. Indian elections are notoriously hard to call, however, due to the country's diverse electorate and a parliamentary system in which local candidates hold great sway. Pre-election opinion polls and post-voting exit polls both have a patchy record. Modi, of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), has electrified the lengthy contest with a media-savvy campaign that has hinged on vows to kickstart India's economy and create jobs. Yet much depends on Modi winning enough seats to form a stable government that will allow him to push through his promised reforms. India's staggered voting, spread over five weeks to reach the country's 815 million voters and move security forces around its varied terrain, ended at 1800 IST (1230 GMT) on Monday. Results are due on May 16. Research group C-Voter predicted 289 seats for the National Democratic Alliance headed by the BJP, with just 101 seats for the alliance led by the Congress party - which would be the ruling party's worst ever result. Another poll, by Cicero for the India Today group, showed the NDA hitting between 261 and 283 seats. A majority of 272 is needed to form a government, although that is often achieved with outside support from regional parties. Several national exit polls over-estimated the BJP's seat share in the last two general elections in 2004 and 2009. The ruling Congress party went on to form coalition governments on both occasions. "We will only know if this 'Modi wave' has really happened after the election results," said Praveen Rai, a political analyst at the Delhi-based Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS), who published a report on exit polls last month. "It still might be more of a media wave, a manufactured wave." CSDS has put together a survey canvassing voters at least a day after they cast their ballots that was due to be released by the CNN-IBN news channel later on Monday. BULL MARKET Uttar Pradesh, India's most populous state and a crucial political battleground, is particularly tricky for pollsters to forecast because it is a caste-sensitive state where some voters are afraid to speak frankly about who they chose, said Rai. C-Voter said its poll was based on a sample of 166,901 randomly selected respondents in all 543 seats up for election. The pollster said its margin of error is +-3 percent at a national level. India's stock markets have in recent days hit record highs on hopes that the exit polls would show the BJP and its allies winning a majority. The Nifty breached the psychologically key level of 7,000 points for the first time on Monday, breaking a record high of 6,871.35 that it hit on Friday. The benchmark BSE Sensex also hit an all-time high and the rupee rallied to its strongest levels in 10 months on Monday. Should Modi fall short of a majority when the results come in on May 16, he will need to strike a coalition deal with some of India's increasingly powerful regional parties. Modi is a polarizing figure whose critics accuse him of turning a blind eye to religious riots in 2002 in the state of Gujarat, where he is chief minister. More than 1,000 people - most of them Muslims - were killed in the violence. Modi denies the accusations and a Supreme Court inquiry found no evidence to prosecute him. (Editing by Frank Jack Daniel and Mike Collett-White) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsHerbalife has found multiple listening devices in its Los Angeles office, Fox Business News' Charlie Gasparino reports. The source of this information also said that the bugs seem nongovernmental. Herbalife is infamously locked in battle with hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, who says the multi-level marketing nutritional supplement company is actually a pyramid scheme. He is shorting the company to zero. Gasparino confirmed this information through a third party source, and Herbalife has yet to comment. Fox Business News is also awaiting commentary from Ackman's office.   FREE AppDownload
As recently as a couple of quarters ago, analysts were convinced that tablet growth rates would be stratospheric forever, or at least until a few billion people had one. Apple, it was said, was no longer going to be "the iPhone company." It was going to be "the iPad company." And analysts were frantically calculating how much money Apple was going to coin once it was selling more iPads than iPhones. Well, those forecasts aren't looking so promising anymore. Tablet growth has slowed sharply over the past few quarters. And tablet growth at Apple has hit a wall. BII Business Insider Analysts have several theories for why growth in this recently ballistic market has suddenly tanked. They cite "increased penetration rates," "high price points," and "lack of innovation," for example. And all those factors are indeed likely contributing. But here's what I think is the real reason tablet growth has cratered: Tablets do not yet solve a pressing need that is not already solved by a laptop or smartphone. Put differently, there's no clear reason yet to own two or three expensive personal-computing devices. You can accomplish just about everything by owning one or two. Some people can get by with only a smartphone, especially now that smartphone screens are much larger than they used to be. (And if people have to own only one device, that's what they're going to own—a smartphone.) Others need two devices. For some people, the best two-gadget combination will be a smartphone and tablet. For others, a smartphone and laptop or desktop. Unless you're an Apple fanatic, you're not going to need to own and carry all three gadgets everywhere. And you're also not going to heavily use all three at home. What would change this? Price. If the price is low enough, there's no reason not to have a couple of extra gadgets hanging around the house, even if they aren't "primary" devices or they don't get used all that much. The reason Android tablets are now outselling Apple iPads is almost certainly that Android-based tablets are available at much more reasonable prices.  To cite one example, I'm a two-gadget guy. I own an iPhone and a MacBook Air. I wouldn't mind owning an iPad Mini, too, but there's just no need for me to shell out $300-plus to buy one. I can do everything I need and want to do on the iPhone and Air. My wife has the same combination of gadgets as I do. My kids have the other combination — Mini and iPhone. Someday soon, one of my kids might become the first member of the family to have all three gadgets — because typing on iPads and iPhones still sucks and humans still type — but we're going to forestall that day as long as possible. We do, also, by the way, have several Kindles in the family. Why? Because Kindles are relatively cheap — $79 a pop. At $79 a pop, you can have a gadget lying around that you don't use as much as your other primary gadgets. So, someday, if Apple finally overcomes its profit obsession and starts selling iPads for a lower price, maybe our family will pick up a couple more Minis, too. And maybe then the tablet market will begin to grow rapidly again. In the meantime, there's just isn't a compelling enough reason for everyone to shell out a lot of money to keep buying, charging, and upgrading two or three devices apiece when we can get along just fine on one or two. And the fact that Apple iPad prices are still high, and there's really no need to upgrade them when you get them, puts a damper on buying them just because they're cool. SEE ALSO: Apple's Greed Is Making My iPhone Worse FREE AppDownload
Photo: Daniel KriegerThe restaurant industry is notoriously cut-throat: According to the National Restaurant Association, 30% of restaurants fail in the first year they open, and of those that survive, another 30% close in the next two. To stand out in an increasingly bloated market, restaurants need to wow diners with incredible meals, outstanding service, and great ambiance — especially if they're charging upwards of $100 a person for the experience. With dozens of best-restaurant lists and user-generated reviews crowding the internet, the definitive winner can get lost in the shuffle. We looked at five notable restaurant rankings compiled by food critics, diners, and experts, and combined these rankings to come up with the ultimate list of the Best Restaurants in America. The rankings we used were The Daily Meal's 101 Best Restaurants in America; OpenTable's 2013 Diners' Choice Top 100 Best Restaurants in America; The World's 100 Best Restaurants; the James Beard Foundation's 2014 Restaurant and Chef Award Semifinalists; and Zagat's 20 Top-Rated Restaurants Across America. We gave each restaurant a numerical rating based on how many lists the restaurant appeared on and how high it appeared on lists that were ranked. Restaurants that appeared on multiple lists ranked higher on our list, while restaurants that ranked on only one of these lists ended up closer to the bottom. You can read our complete methodology and see numerical scores here. FREE AppDownload
Note: Press stories estimate Yahoo's holdings at 22.6% or 24%, depending on whether you use diluted or primary shares. I used the 523.6 million shares that Yahoo owns in Alibaba and my estimate of 2368.67 million shares outstanding in Alibaba, including restricted stock units, in Alibaba to arrive at 22.1%. Setting up the valuation To value shares in Yahoo, you have to estimate the value of its US operations, but that is only a small piece of the overall value, since Yahoo owns 35% of Yahoo Japan and 22.1% of Alibaba. Neither holding is consolidated, and the way in which the accounting works effectively means that the key operating numbers that you see in Yahoo’s financial statements (revenues, operating income) will not reflect either of these holdings. To illustrate the tangled web of values, here are the steps to get to the value of equity in Yahoo: Thus, to value equity in Yahoo, you have to value Yahoo, Yahoo Japan and Alibaba separately, and after aggregating your holdings in each company's equity (100% of Yahoo, 35% of Yahoo Japan and 22.1% of Alibaba), you also have to net out any taxes that will come due on capital gains if Yahoo plans to or is required to sell any of its holdings. In the case of Alibaba, it has no choice, at least on a part of the holding, since it will be required as part of a prior agreement to sell 208 million shares after the IPO. If you are interested in Yahoo as an investment, there are three ways in which you can approach the analysis. The Puzzle: Yahoo and its fall from dominance I started with the parent company, a pioneer in the online search/advertising business that has long since been pushed to the sidelines by Google. Revenues have been declining at Yahoo! (US) over the last few years, going from $7.2 billion in 2008 to $4.68 billion in 2013 and the contrast with Google over the last decade is striking:  Yahoo versus Google: No mas!   The much heralded ascension of Marissa Mayer to the top of the company has not resulted in a turnaround in revenues, though the company continued to be profitable, generating $590 million in 2013 (translating into a pre-tax operating margin of 12.6%). If there was any positive news about Yahoo! in its most recent report, it is that ad revenues have stopped falling and that they increased 1.7% over the same quarter in the last year, though total revenues declined slightly and operating income dropped; the company generated $422 million in operating income on revenues of $4672 million in the twelve months ending March 31, 2014. Intrinsic valuation: Assuming that Yahoo! will return to dominance or even get back to moderate growth is a reach. I will, however, assume that Ms. Mayer will find a way to stop the bleeding and that the company will muddle along as a mature company with stagnant revenues and stable margins. I assume a nominal growth rate of 1% for the next 5 years for Yahoo!, increasing to 2.75% in year 10, I estimate a value of $4.38 billion for its operating assets, but adding its substantial cash balance of $4.6 billion and netting out its debt of $1.6 billion, I derive a value of equity of $7.37 billion for the parent company.  You can download the parent company valuation by clicking here. (I used the last 10K filed by Yahoo and updated the numbers using the most recent 10Q). A relative valuation (pricing): You can anchor your relative valuation of Yahoo! to revenues, EBITDA or operating income. Perhaps, the simplest way to do this would be to apply the median EV/Sales or EV/EBITDA  multiple for the sector (internet software and services) to Yahoo's metrics to estimate a value for just the parent company's operating assets.  While it is tempting to apply these median multiples in the sector in internet software &amp; services business to Yahoo’s revenues, you will get absurdly high values, since most of the companies in this sector are expected to have high revenue growth in the future,  and Yahoo! has little or no expected growth. In particular, we would expect Yahoo to trade at a much lower revenue multiple than its competitors. To get an adjusted revenue growth, we plotted EV/Sales against revenue growth for all internet stocks in the chart below: There are outliers in this relationship, with higher revenue growth companies trade at higher multiples of revenues. (Twitter is one of the outliers in the graph, but this graph was prepared before Twitter's fall from grace last week. It is not as much of an outlier any more.)  In fact, the best fit line yields the following (and you can download the raw data used for the regression here): EV/Sales = -0.94 + 21.21(Expected revenue growth) + 15.06 (Operating Margin) Given Yahoo's expected revenue growth rate of 1% and current operating margin of 9.02%, we would forecast an EV/Sales ratio of only 0,63 for Yahoo . EV/Sales Yahoo = -0.94 + 21.21(.01) + 15.06 (.0902) = 0.63 Applying this multiple to Yahoo’s revenues ($4.672 billion) yields $2,948 billion for Yahoo’s enterprise value, and adding the cash balance ($4.6 billion) and subtracting out debt (1.6 billion) yields a value of equity of $5.9 billion. Note that this is the value of only the parent company, since the revenues from the cross holdings (Yahoo Japan and Alibaba) are not incorporated into Yahoo’s revenues.) Market price: Given the stock price of $33.76 at the time of this post, we have a market capitalization of $34.8 billion for Yahoo in May 2014, but that reflects the market’s assessment of the value of equity in the company with its cross holdings. The Mystery: Yahoo! Japan While Yahoo! has struggled in the US market, Yahoo! Japan has had more success in the Japanese market, as evidenced in the graph below: While there was a slowdown in 2012 and 2013, the company has been able to post a compounded annual growth rate of 22% in revenues and earnings in the last decade. Intrinsic valuation: Estimating an intrinsic value for Yahoo! Japan, with a 5% growth rate in revenues for the next 5 years and much higher operating margin (40%) than Yahoo, yields an intrinsic value of $17.9 billion for the operating assets and $21 billion for its equity. You can download the valuation of Yahoo Japan by clicking here. Relative valuation/pricing: Using the same regression on online companies that I used to value the parent company, I estimate an EV/Sales multiple of 7.91 for Yahoo! Japan, based on its expected revenue growth of 5% and operating margin of 51.72%. EV/Sales Yahoo Japan = -0.94 + 21.21(.05) + 15.06 (.5172) = 7.91 Applying this multiple to the revenues of $3,929 million in 2013, we estimate a value of $31.1 billion for Yahoo! Japan’s operating assets. Adding cash and subtracting debt yields a value of equity of $34.2 billion for Yahoo! Japan. Pricing: Yahoo! Japan is a stand alone and publicly traded entity, with a market capitalization of $23.2 billion in May 2014. The Enigma: Alibaba The final piece of the valuation is Alibaba, in whom Yahoo! has a 22.1% stake. Until last week, we were valuing Alibaba primarily through the financials that Yahoo was reporting for the company, since it was private and unlisted. With the prospectus now in the public domain, we can be more specific in both the intrinsic and relative valuations of the company. Intrinsic value: Rather than rehash the intrinsic valuation of Alibaba, I will direct you to my last post, where I valued Alibaba's equity at $145 billion, post IPO. That valuation is built on the assumptions of revenue growth slowing to 25% (on an annual, compounded basis over the next 5 years) and a target operating margin of 40% (below the current operating margin of 50%). You can download the Alibaba IPO valuation spreadsheet by clicking here. Relative valuation/Pricing: The second is to use the revenue and net income numbers, in conjunction with estimates multiples obtained by looking at other companies in the business and adjusting for Alibaba’s higher growth and profit margins. The table below lists PE and Price to Sales (which is a inconsistent multiple, but one we are stuck with since we have no debt and cash numbers) for sectors that may or may not match Alibaba’s business model: The range of values that you obtain, using these multiples for Yahoo!, is immense, from a low of $6 billion (using EV/Sales of general retail) to a high of $285.6 billion (using a PE ratio of US online retailers). The bankers will undoubtedly gravitate towards earnings-based multiples and samples of internet firms as comparable firms during their roadshow. Using the EV/Sales regression that I used to value Yahoo! and Yahoo! Japan, with an expected revenue growth of 27% (from valuation) and operating margin of 49.07%: EV/Sales Alibaba = -0.94 + 21.21(.27) + 15.06 (.4907) = 12.18 Applied to Alibaba's revenues of $7,911 million in 2013, adding the value of cash, cross holdings in Weibo &amp; other online ventures and expected IPO proceeds of $27,963 million and netting out debt ($6,670 million) yields a value for Alibaba's equity of $117,623 million. I would not be surprised if Baidu, the only other large, publicly traded Chinese online company that is structured similarly to Alibaba (as a Variable Interest Entity) is used for comparison and its pricing ratios are applied to Alibaba's metrics to arrive at value. On second thoughts, given how low these values are, relative to the rumored IPO numbers, it is entirely possible that bankers will avoid talking about Baidu as much as they can, since it will not fit their pricing story. Pricing: Alibaba is not a publicly traded company yet, but there is no shortage of estimates of how much the company will be valued at after its IPO. The rumored IPO estimates of equity value (http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2014-02-05/alibaba-s-average-valuation-rises-to-153-billion-after-earnings.html) range from $150 to $200 billion. The Bottom line At this stage, we have three paths we can follow to estimate the value per share in Yahoo, which entitles you to a full share in the parent, 35% of the equity of Yahoo! Japan and 22.1% of the equity in Alibaba. In each case, I have netted out the taxes that Yahoo will have coming due on the 208 million shares of Alibaba that it will have to sell. Pulling together the numbers for all the valuation/pricing of the individual companies, here is where we stand: 1. All intrinsic value: Using the intrinsic value estimates that we have for the three companies in the mix, we can estimate an intrinsic value per share for Yahoo: The taxes were computed based on the capital gains, the difference between the assessed equity value for Alibaba and the book value (from Yahoo's 10K) for these shares. Using intrinsic value estimates for all three companies, the value per share is $46.13, making it under valued by 27%, relative to the prevailing price per share ($33.76). 2. All relative value: Using the relative value estimates that we have for Yahoo, Yahoo Japan and Alibaba, we derive a relative value per share for Yahoo: On a relative value basis, the value per share is $43.16, making it under valued by 22% at its current price. 3. Pricing break-even: There is a third twist that can be used to value Yahoo's equity. You can use the market pricing of Yahoo Japan and Alibaba to back out the value that the market is attaching to the parent company's operating assets. Since Alibaba is not public yet, this will require use of the estimated IPO value numbers (I will use $150 billion for the base case), but once Alibaba becomes a public company, the pricing will be the market value. Using the expected IPO value of equity of $150 billion, the conclusion you arrive at is that the market must be attaching a negative value to the parent company's operating assets. To the extent that this may just reflect the possibility that we are misplacing the Alibaba IPO, I estimated the value of Yahoo operating assets as a function of the value of Alibaba equity after the IPO. The results here are consistent with both the intrinsic and relative value assessments. Unless the Alibaba post-IPO equity value is less than $104 billion, it looks like Yahoo is mispriced, relative to how its holdings are being priced. What next? While I remain concerned about the overall valuation of companies in the sector, Yahoo seems mispriced on every basis, intrinsic, relative and market pricing. I am aware that there are risks (as with any investment) and there are three concerns that I have: The cross holdings and the confusion they breed among investors it both an ally and a hindrance, an ally because it is one reason why the stock (in my view) is mispriced and a hindrance because it may take a while for the mispricing to become evident. Alibaba's IPO may seem an obvious catalyst but market corrections don't always follow the logical path. The tax issue is a nagging problem, but the company seems cognizant of the tax overhang and negotiated with Alibaba to reduce the number of shares that it would have to sell after the IPO. Finally, Ms. Mayer seems to be saying all the right things, talking about how how she plans to be a "good steward of capital", but talk is cheap and the pressure to go for bigger and better will be difficult to resist. On balance, none of these risks is enough of a deal breaker for me. Not only is there a gap between price and value with Yahoo but there is one between price (that the market is attaching to Yahoo) and price (that the market is attaching to Yahoo! Japan and Alibaba) and as a newly minted Yahoo stockholder, I am hoping that one or the other of these gaps will close. Yahoo! Equity Valuation: Master spreadsheet (is linked to individual company valuations below) Yahoo! Parent intrinsic valuation Yahoo! Japan intrinsic valuation Alibaba IPO intrinsic valuation Raw data for relative valuations (Online companies - fundamentals and multiples) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueFormer Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner's new book, "Stress Test: Reflections on the Financial Crisis," has barely left the presses and it's already getting slammed. The book — Geithner's account of the darkest days of the financial crisis — has drawn criticism from both Neil Barofsky, the former Special Inspector General for the Troubled Assets Relief Program (TARP), and Glenn Hubbard, dean of the Columbia Business School and former George W. Bush economic adviser. Both accused Geithner of what Barofsky called "factual mischaracterizations," and what Hubbard called out-and-out lying. Semantics. Either way, both men also admit that they haven't read the book. Barofsky's complaint is that Geithner resorted to name-calling in the book, and bashed the TARP office's role as a law-enforcement agency in cleaning up after the financial crisis. Barofsky wrote in a response to the book (via Naked Capitalism): Sadly, this lack of comprehension of the important role of law enforcement too often informed Geithner’s attitude toward potential fraud in the TARP programs. His team often resisted antifraud protections that we insisted be included in the programs, claiming that the banks who were participating in the programs could simply be trusted, a perspective that now has proven to be naïve at best. Thankfully, with help from Congress, other oversight bodies, and even, at times, the Federal Reserve, we were able to overcome Treasury’s resistance and protect the TARP programs from potentially devastating losses, something that Mr. Geithner once even thanked me for. Barofsky goes on to say that Geithner's book paints him as an unqualified leader for TARP, an agency that Geithner saw as a thorn in his side anyway. Mr. Geithner apparently concludes that our little agency was “damaging” to his efforts to persuade the American people to support his program. While I take it as a compliment that he thinks that our team had such a disproportionate impact, I suspect that the truth is slightly different. The American people considered TARP an unfair giveaway to the largest banks and a failure for Main Street because, in fact, that is exactly what it was. All this said, Barofsky has always been clear about his strained relationship with the former Treasury Secretary. He thought Geithner was far too supportive of Wall Street banks during in the aftermath of the financial meltdown. Memoir name-calling, though, seems like the last straw. If that sounds bad, then what Hubbard accuses Geithner of is possibly about the worst thing anyone could do to a Republican economic adviser. In "Stress Test," Geithner says that Hubbard endorsed raising taxes. Hubbard, in turn, told Politico that that is a lie. “He’s going to go out and say what he wants,” Hubbard said in an interview. “It just happens to be a lie.” Geithner wrote that Hubbard admitted that "of course" the administration was going to have to raise taxes, but that it was politically impossible for anyone to say it publicly yet. In his own way, Hubbard also agrees with Barofsky about Geithner's allegiance to Wall Street interests, saying that Geithner was against helping underwater homeowners through mortgage refinancing: “I saw some of the excerpts about housing and I must say I split my side in laughter because Tim Geithner personally and actively opposed mortgage refinancing, constantly,” he said. “And now he’s claiming this would have been a great idea in the country. I don’t know how much more ingenuous that is in the book, but that was just a real laugher.” Pistols at dawn, guys. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/FarinelliMoiApple's weaker than expected tablet sales in Q1 are not an anomaly. They are the new normal, according to Morgan Stanley analyst Katy Huberty.  In a research report, Huberty says she's cutting her forecast for tablet growth: We lower our 2014 tablet growth forecast to 12% from 26% on the back of increasing penetration rates and the lack of new, differentiated products. Although slower tablet growth should help PC demand, our global PC model remains largely unchanged at -5% in 2014 and 2015. She was in Asia, and spoke suppliers about the tablet market: Most blame weakness on increased penetration rates and lack of meaningful innovation. Few suppliers were able to communicate a credible argument for a growth re-acceleration this year, however Android appears to be faring better than iOS tablets on the back of lower price points and broader product portfolios. Longer-term, suppliers expect larger screen tablets to further cannibalize traditional notebooks. This is a pretty big call. After the iPad exploded out of the gates -- growing faster than the iPhone, growing faster, perhaps than any other consumer electronics device -- people assumed it was going to take over the world.  It still is poised to take over the world, just not as quickly as people think.  There's a saying in technology, and we're not sure who to attribute it to, but basically, technological change is overrated in the short term, and underrated in the long term.  That means people see new technology products and they think everything will change immediately, when in reality it takes a while for new technology to change the world. The iPhone feels like it changed everything right away, but really it took a few years. Think about the dot com boom and bust. Many of the companies that went bust in the first boom have been resurrected in one form or another today. The vision was right, the timing was off.  Similarly, with tablets, the future of computing is going to be more like a tablet, and less like a laptop or a PC. After a hot start, things are cooling, but that doesn't mean it's not going to happen.  FREE AppDownload
Meltzer notes that the Fed relies on the Phillips Curve model, which posits an inverse correlation between inflation and unemployment. When there is too much (too little) slack in the labor market, wage inflation, which is the main driver of price inflation, tends to fall (rise). He states that the relationship has been unreliable and warns: “The Fed's forecasts of inflation ignore Milton Friedman's dictum that ‘inflation is always and everywhere’ a result of excessive money growth relative to the growth of real output.” Maybe so. However, even Friedman’s model is a “slack” model because monetary growth is excessive--and inflationary--when it exceeds the potential growth of the economy and resource utilization is high. The slack models of both Keynesian and monetarist macroeconomists ignore microeconomic factors, particularly the structure of markets. A competitive economy is likely to “produce” more output and less inflation for a given amount of monetary and fiscal stimulus than an uncompetitive one, which will be prone to produce less output and more inflation. I'm of the opinion that our economy is more competitive and less prone to inflation, as I've discussed previously. Technological innovations are boosting productivity and keeping a lid on labor costs. We will see how this plays out in coming months now that April’s unemployment rate was down to 6.3%, the lowest since September 2008. The short-term unemployment rate at 4.1% shows even less slack. Both of these jobless rates have been inversely correlated with wage inflation in the past. In recent months, wage inflation has risen slightly, but remains low. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Tornado Watch. (1) Tornado warning. (2) U-Haul says Houston is tops. (3) False alarms reduce response times, and corrections. (4) Investors are serene. (5) Yellen says small stocks overvalued, rest are fine. (6) Financial Stability Oversight Council annual report is less reassuring. (7) Meltzer says inflation is coming. (8) Less slack, more inflation? (9) Phillips Curve showing falling unemployment rate may be starting to boost wage inflation a bit. (10) Slicing and dicing the wage inflation data. (11) Will price inflation follow wage inflation? (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Tech companies Apple, Google, Facebook and Microsoft go through complicated maneuvers to achieve cheaper tax rates. Produced by Sara Silverstein and Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Darren Staples Manchester City's players celebrate after winning the English Premier League following their soccer match against West Ham United at the Etihad Stadium in Manchester, northern England May 11, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Ukraine's Referendum. A referendum held Sunday in Ukraine's Donetsk and Luhansk region appeared to end with citizens voting to separate from Ukraine. Russia said it recognized the votes as legitimate, while Ukraine, the European Union and much of the western world saw it as a farce. What It Means For Everyone Else. The Ukraine economy is relatively small. However, the secondary effects of turmoil in the region could be severe. "The crisis in Ukraine is a danger which is very difficult to gauge (and) whose contagion risk for other countries can barely be predicted," said the IMF's Christine Lagardeon Monday. "All the same, it can have severe economic consequences." Pfizer Fires Back. Drug behemoth Pfizer continues to be the target of harsh criticism following its proposed $106 billion takeover of UK drugmaker AstraZeneca. For the British, jobs remain a top concern. "Governments are all around the world pressurizing the industry to produce products of higher value and with more productivity, at lower cost," said Pfizer CEO Ian Read on Saturday. "So one way of doing that is to consolidate and is to take out overlapping functions." "Rocky Time" For IBM. IBM CEO Virginia Rometty told the New York Times' Steve Lohr that the company is experiencing a "rocky time." "Ms. Rometty said she and the company now had a clear vision for how to pursue another generation of growth." wrote Lohr. "The company, she says, has jettisoned less profitable business and made major commitments in new fields — like technology to help customers find insights in today’s flood of digital data, and cloud-style computing in which processing and software is delivered remotely over the Internet. Cloud computing, she insists, can be converted to an opportunity for IBM." Nasdaq Hires New Co-President. Carlyle Group CFO Adena Friedman will be joining Nasdaq OMX Group as Co-President. "She is now the "leading candidate" to take over as chief executive when [CEO Robert] Greifeld departs, according to a person familiar with the plans," reported the Wall Street Journal's Bradley Hope. "As part of the changes, Hans-Ole Jochumsen was named co-president with Ms. Friedman." No Surprises In China's Credit Data. Seasonal factors caused new loans and outstanding total social financing balances to decline month-over-month in China, but the numbers were largely in line with economists' estimates. "We expect this set of data to have limited market impact," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Ting Lu. "This set of data is consistent with our view that the PBoC will continue fine-tuning its monetary policy though it sees no need for a major easing. The PBoC could keep ample liquidity, lower financing costs and support credit growth in select areas, such as in rural China, as part of the government's growth-supportive measures." Another Mega Deal. Merger and acquisition activity remains high. earlier today, packaged food company Hillshire Brands announced it would acquire Pinnacle Foods for $6.6 billion. Markets Are On The Rise. Stocks are rallying around the world. Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed up 1.8%. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.4%, France's CAC 40 is up 0.1%, Germany's DAX is up 0.9%, and Spain's IBEX is up 0.5%. US futures are pointing up with Dow futures up 58 point and S&amp;P futures up 7 points. Fed's Lockhart Speaks. "It may not be clear for several months, or even quarters, whether the U.S. economy is undeniably on a stronger and sustained growth path around a run rate of 3%," said Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart in Dubai this weekend. He also discussed some fo the Fed's alternative tools for managing interest rates. "I am confident reverse repos will be among our tool bag and will therefore may very well have a role in how we try to influence short-term interest rates." Samsung's Chairman Undergoes Heart Procedure. Lee Kun-hee is recovering at the Samsung Medical Center after undergoing a cardiac procedure on Sunday. According to Reuters Narae Kim, he "was admitted to a hospital near his home late on Saturday night, suffering breathing difficulties, and received cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) for symptoms of cardiac arrest." FREE AppDownload
PepperstonePepperstone CEO Owen Kerr (center) accepting the Fast 50 Award. An alleged insider trading scams was exposed via LinkedIn after a suspicious broker used the social media network to uncover links between a banker trading in foreign currency and a government statistician. The foreign exchange broker, Owen Kerr, had been alerted by a staff member that a client, National Australia Bank associate director Lukas Kamay, was apparently making large bets on the Australian dollar, frequently seconds or minutes before the official announcement of economic data at the regular release time of 11.30am. Examining Kamay’s LinkedIn account, Mr Kerr realized the banker had been to Monash University with a man named Christopher Hill, who worked at the Australian Bureau of Statistics. The link was passed on to police, who conducted a nine-month surveillance operation which eventually led to the arrests of Kamay and Hill last week over an alleged scam in which they are believed to have netted up to $6.6 million. Police also made inquiries through Facebook to discover that the two men were “friends”. Kamay, 26, who faces seven charges, allegedly offered his friend more than $47,240 to disclose the inside information. Authorities have frozen his assets, including his purchase of a luxury $2.19 million loft apartment in inner city Melbourne. Hill, 24, who faces five charges, allegedly provided confidential information such as housing and building approval figures to ‘‘predict fluctuations in the Australian dollar’’. Mr Kerr, from Pepperstone Financial, said the currency trades were usually submitted at about 11.25am but sometimes just 30 seconds before the official data was released. “Kamay was taking quite decent size positions which were larger than his account size could sustain if they went the wrong way,” he said. “So they were really an all-or-nothing bet and not something someone would normally rationally make.”  FREE AppDownload
Apple.comSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Apple Inc has cut in half the time it takes to give refunds to online store customers who want to return their iPhones and other gadgets, a small but crucial step to try to get more people to buy direct from its website. The move is a big upfront expense on Apple's part, but could pay off in the long run if the company can lure online customers away from retailers such as Amazon.com Inc and Best Buy Inc, industry experts say. According to retail-intelligence firm StellaService, customers who buy a product from Apple's online store can get a refund in under a week, versus 10 days previously. Apple is processing refunds at a faster rate because the company now uses an expedited service, FedEx 2Day, to let customers ship returned items with prepaid labels to its warehouse in three days. StellaService researchers first noted the improvement in refund processing times in November, but chalked it up to a temporary measure for the busy holiday season. The company, which orders items from Apple's website several times a day for research purposes, also discovered that packages were stamped with FedEx 2Day, rather than a Newgistics prepaid label. A source with knowledge of the new procedure confirmed that customers will incur no additional cost. "This is the first time we're seeing an investment like this on the returns side," Kevon Hills, StellaService's vice president of research, told Reuters. StellaService does business with Amazon-owned Zappos, but declined to disclose whether its customer base included Apple, Amazon or eBay. Amazon remains the frontrunner in online retail, but the race is heating up. Trade publication Internet Retailer estimated that Apple recently took the No. 2 spot from Staples in worldwide sales. These rankings do not include sales by third parties. Apple experienced a 24 percent increase in online sales to $18.3 billion in 2013, Internet Retailer estimated. E-commerce experts say Apple prides itself on its customer service and believes in controlling every aspect of its business. "Speed is becoming a significant competitive weapon" in the e-commerce wars, said Marc Wulfraat, president of MWPVL International, a logistics and supply chain consulting firm. But most e-commerce firms do not invest in making the returns process more efficient, as it does not serve the bottom line. "Returns are viewed as a hidden cost, so many e-commerce companies make the process very difficult," he added. "Returns are the first place to cut corners." Apple rival Amazon offers instant refunds in some cases. However, this puts the company at risk for fraud, as some customers may not actually return the item. By cutting down on the days an item is in transit, Apple can offer a speedier refund and avoid fraud. Amazon spokeswoman Julie Law said the company does not comment on its competitors. Apple spokeswoman Amy Bessette said the company had no comment at this time. FedEx declined to speak publicly on customer agreements. (Editing by Jan Paschal) FREE AppDownload
REUTERSTraders on the floor of the Singapore International Monetary Exchange (SIMEX) gesture as trading gets busy on the third straight day of gains for Asian currencies Febuary 4, 1998.Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus has the topics that traders are talking about today: Good Morning!  US Futures are starting 50bp higher, jumping to peaks on M&amp;A headlines ($7B Food Deal on the tape) and electing stops in some global indices.   The Momentum names are rebounding early, with TWTR, P, FEYE and PLUG all up over 2% early.   Overseas, markets are jumping, with the DAX up 1% in decent volumes.  Markets are shrugging off votes in Ukraine’s Separatist Union – Russia’s Micex off very small after gaining almost 5% last week.   In Asia, Shanghai jumped 2% as Beijing reiterated it would go ahead with a swath of reforms that will liberalize financial markets, but the Nikkei lost 40bp as Japan’s 3 biggest banks report this week.  Aussie was off 40bp, led by weak mining stocks as Ore falls to a 20month low – but Emerging Markets hitting 1M highs, with India’s Sensex hits new all-time highs into Election results.The 10YY is up 1bp to May highs this AM – and the 2/10 Yield curve continues to steepen, a welcome tailwind for the financials.   The DXY is off small, the Yen is slightly weaker, but the € is taking some flows.   The commodity markets are jumping, however – with Copper and Silver jumping 1.5%+ on China Stimulus hopes - Nickel jumping over 2% as Indonesia ban continues to cause upward pressure.  Gold is popping 50bp, but being rejected early from the 200dma and $1300/oz.  The Crude Complex is slightly higher as the market jockeys between Ukraine and Iran headlines – For Catalysts, We have a light calendar today – There is a large POMO at 11, Fed’s Plosser (Hawk) speaks at 12, and we get the Monthly Budget Statement at 2.  Focus tonight will be on China’s IP and Retail Sales release.Watch the Retailers into tomorrow’s Advance Retail Sales for April.  Traders continue to watch the Homebuilders (ITB) dancing on the 200dma into this week’s Housing Starts and Building Permits for April releases.   Credit market’s focus is on multiple Fed speakers – including Yellen on Thursday.  Finally – 3 commodities are in focus:  Global Inflation prints will have Gold bugs hoping it gets back over $1300/oz, Oil traders will be watching developments in Iran’s talks, and Metals traders will be watching the potential for a strike at Aussie’s Port Hedlund – it’s largest Ore exporting facility. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsWe'll get a nice cross section of the U.S. economy this week thanks to new monthly reports on retail sales, inflation, industrial production, and housing starts. But with the stock market and economy stalling a bit lately, most experts are focusing on one force to ignite the next phase of the rally: capital expenditures. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary Five months into the year, the S&amp;P 500 is up a measly 1.6%. And that gain belies the fact that many stocks are in bear markets (that is, down by over 20% from their highs). Deutsche Bank's David Bianco believes the next 5%+ will be down. But he also see the S&amp;P rallying to 2,000 by the end of 2015. Behavioral Macro's Mark Dow recommends investors keep calm for now: "Bottom line: It will take a growth breakout into escape velocity or something like it to get a resumption of the rally, or, more serious disappointment to get the washout that so many are already expecting. Unsatisfactory though this is, the right move is to be patient. The bull market is not over, but it’s not a smart time to press your bets. The longer we twist in this limbo, the more attractive the upside will become. Time heals. Keep your strategic positions and hedge out market beta as best you can. Sometimes you have to keep your bat on your shoulder—something guys collecting two percent management fees have a hard time doing." For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
AFPInternational Monetary Fund chief Christine Lagarde International Monetary Fund chief Christine Lagarde warned in a German newspaper interview Monday that the Ukraine crisis could have "severe" economic consequences for other countries. Lagarde also told the Handelsblatt business daily that a 17-billion-dollar aid package granted to Ukraine by the IMF would not be enough. "The crisis in Ukraine is a danger which is very difficult to gauge (and) whose contagion risk for other countries can barely be predicted," she said. "All the same, it can have severe economic consequences." Lagarde will meet German Chancellor Angela Merkel in Berlin on Tuesday for annual talks, alongside the heads of the OECD, World Bank, World Trade Organisation and International Labour Organisation, on the global economic situation. Asked where the biggest dangers lay, the IMF chief pointed to the turmoil in Ukraine having an impact on international trade, foreign direct investment, international capital flows and Europe's energy supply. "Ukraine needs much more than 17 billion dollars. For example, bilateral help from abroad and financial help from other international financial institutions," Lagarde said, adding that the international community had no choice. "We can't simply say the situation is too precarious, therefore we're not giving money at the moment." Pro-Russian rebels have claimed voters in two eastern Ukrainian regions massively backed independence in a disputed poll Sunday, as Ukraine gears up for presidential elections on May 25 after protests in February forced out pro-Moscow president Viktor Yanukovych. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
@Wegmans on TwitterA somewhat strange story on inflation in the WSJ: Markets Watch, Warily, for a Small Bump in Inflation Normally, a move of a couple of tenths of a percentage point in the inflation measures wouldn't matter much to anyone. But the stakes are high now as Federal Reserve officials justify their plan to keep short-term interest rates near zero in part because inflation is running so far below their 2% objective. Fed officials expect inflation to move from near 1% to 1.5% by year-end. If it moves up sooner or more than they expect, officials could consider raising rates sooner than planned. Uh, the Fed expects inflation to move up towards 2%, and if it doesn't, the Fed might slow or stop the tapering of QE3 asset purchases.  In her testimony last week, Fed Chair Yellen said: "Looking ahead, I expect that economic activity will expand at a somewhat faster pace this year than it did last year, that the unemployment rate will continue to decline gradually, and that inflation will begin to move up toward 2 percent."emphasis addedThe most recent FOMC projections show PCE inflation moving up to 1.5% to 1.6% by Q4, but the Fed wouldn't raise rates sooner just because inflation rate moved closer to 2% this year - unless employment indicators improved significantly too.And another sentence from the WSJ article:  The persistent low inflation has befuddled economists who thought Fed easy-money policies would spark rampant price gains. Well, yes, some economists had the wrong model, but most economists realized that easy-money policies wouldn't lead to inflation in a depressed economy (I've been making fun of incorrect inflation forecasts for years). Eventually we will see a little more inflation - and an increase in inflation towards 2% would be good news - not something to watch "warily" for. FREE AppDownload
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Union was set to take a cautious step towards extending sanctions against Russia on Monday, targeting companies, as well as people, linked to Moscow's annexation of Ukraine's Crimea region. Ministers meeting in Brussels also discussed what would trigger more hard-hitting economic sanctions on the Russian economy with big EU powers Germany, France and Britain all threatening tougher action against Moscow if it undermined the May 25 Ukrainian presidential election. Several ministers denounced as illegal Sunday's referendums organized by pro-Russian rebels in eastern Ukraine that separatist leaders may use to formalize a split with Kiev. "These attempts at referendums have zero credibility in the eyes of the world, they are illegal by anybody's standards," British Foreign Secretary William Hague told reporters as he arrived at the meeting. Dutch Foreign Minister Frans Timmermans said he believed EU foreign ministers would expand sanctions against Russia. "We need to send a clear message that what we have seen until now is completely unacceptable," he told reporters. The EU ministers were set to endorse a broadening of the legal criteria for sanctions on Russia, making it easier to freeze the assets of companies involved in the Ukraine crisis. For now, the scope of new sanctions will be limited to firms or other organizations linked to Russia's annexation of Crimea and the EU will not target high-profile firms such as Gazprom. Using the new expanded criteria, EU officials have prepared a list of 13 people and two Crimean companies active in the energy sector that ministers are expected to add to the EU sanctions list on Monday, EU diplomats say. The identities of the people and firms are being kept confidential for now. The EU has previously imposed asset freezes and visa bans on 48 Russians and Ukrainians over Moscow's annexation of Crimea but even with the addition of a few companies, its sanctions will still be less ambitious than those imposed by Washington. Ministers were holding talks with Didier Burkhalter, head of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, who has drawn up a peace plan for Ukraine. Ministers are also expected to debate the sensitive issue of what would trigger more far-reaching economic sanctions that EU leaders have threatened to impose on Russia if it further destabilizes Ukraine. The EU, dependent on Russia for energy, is deeply divided with countries such as Britain, France, Poland and Sweden pushing for stronger sanctions. Those most reluctant include Italy, Greece, Cyprus, Bulgaria,Luxembourg, Austria and Spain. Germany and France are ready to agree more extensive sanctions against Russia if a planned presidential election in Ukraine on May 25 is foiled, Chancellor Angela Merkel and President Francois Hollande said on Saturday. Britain also backs that position. Hague said he hoped the EU would intensify preparations for economic sanctions "if the circumstances require it, particularly determined by the Russian attitude to the elections on May 25." He thought ministers would be able to agree on Monday what the tests for moving to tougher sanctions were. Poland's foreign minister Radoslaw Sikorski also said the threat of further sanctions would be spelled out on Monday. "I expect we will decide today to expand the sanctions list and set out new sanctions in the case that the May 25 election is disturbed," he said. German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said he would travel to Kiev on Tuesday and possibly to eastern and southern Ukraine to try to convince people there that building bridges between different sides was the only solution. "We have to be prepared for what to do if someone prevents the elections on May 25. It that is going to happen ... then we have to think about further sanctions," he said. But Austrian Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz opposed tougher sanctions. "We should not yearn for economic sanctions as they would not only hit Russia but also definitely hit us .. If we would go one step further with our sanctions with every provocation, we would already have war," he said. Some EU governments fear tough trade sanctions on Russia could undermine their own economies, just recovering from the financial crisis, and provoke Russian retaliation. (Editing by Giles Elgood) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ueslei Marcelino Activists demonstrate in front of riot police outside the Mane Garrincha National Stadium in Brasilia June 15, 2013. BRASILIA, Brazil (AP) — The cost of building Brasilia's World Cup stadium has nearly tripled to $900 million in public funds, largely due to allegedly fraudulent billing, government auditors say. The spike in costs has made it the world's second-most expensive soccer arena, even though the city has no major professional team. Mane Garrincha stadium, which boasts 288 imposing concrete pillars holding aloft a high-tech self-cleaning roof, has become the costliest project related to Brazil's $11.5 billion World Cup. Critics call it the poster child for out-of-control spending and mismanagement, or worse. Now, an Associated Press analysis of data from Brazil's top electoral court shows skyrocketing campaign contributions by the very companies involved in the most Cup projects. The lead builder of Brasilia's stadium increased its political donations 500-fold in the most recent election. The financial links between construction firms and politicians add to deep suspicions among Brazilians that preparations for soccer's premier event beginning next month are tainted by corruption, raising questions about how politicians who benefit from construction firms' largesse can be effective watchdogs over billion-dollar World Cup contracts. Anger over perceived corruption helped fuel huge protests last year, and there are fears more unrest could mar the Cup. "These donations are making corruption in this country even worse and making it increasingly difficult to fight," said Renato Rainha, an arbiter at Brasilia's Audit Court, which is investigating the spending on Brasilia's stadium. "These politicians are working for those who financed campaigns." In a 140-page report on the stadium, the auditors found $275 million in alleged price-gouging — and they have only examined three-fourths of the project. They forecast that fully one-third of the stadium's cost may be attributable to overpricing, the largest single chunk of $500 million in suspect spending auditors have flagged in World Cup construction projects so far. Federal prosecutors say as yet no individuals or companies face corruption charges related to World Cup work, but it could take years for official audits to be finalized and judged by civil courts, a required step before any criminal charges are filed. There are at least a dozen separate federal investigations into World Cup spending. "Is there corruption in the Cup? Of course, without a doubt," said Gil Castelo Branco, founder of the watchdog group Contas Abertas that campaigns for transparency in government spending. "Corruption goes where the money is, and in Brazil today, the big money is tied up in the Cup." REUTERS/Ueslei MarcelinoAn aerial view of the Mane Garrincha National Stadium in Brasilia January 20, 2014. The price of building or refurbishing the 12 arenas alone has nearly quadrupled from initial estimates, helping make Brazil's World Cup the priciest of any yet. Funding for Brasilia's stadium relies solely on financing from the federal district's coffers, meaning every cent comes from taxpayers. The auditors' report found instances of what appears to be flagrant overpricing. For instance, the auditor's report says transportation of pre-fabricated grandstands was supposed to cost just $4,700 — but the construction consortium billed the government $1.5 million. The consortium is made up of Andrade Gutierrez, a construction conglomerate, and Via Engenharia, an engineering firm. The steel to build the arena represented one-fifth of total expenses — and auditors say wasteful cutting practices or poor planning added $28 million in costs, the single biggest overrun uncovered so far. The audit questions why the consortium had to discard 12 percent of its steel in Brasilia when Andrade Gutierrez, using the same cutting methods, lost just 5 percent of steel at another stadium it helped build in the Amazon city of Manaus and virtually none at a Cup arena in Cuiaba. Another $16 million was lost when Brasilia's government inexplicably failed to enforce a fine against Andrade Gutierrez for a five-month delay in completion of the main portion of the stadium. Auditors also say they spotted $2.3 million worth of materials that were simply listed multiple times on bills. Andrade Gutierrez did not respond to an AP request for comment on the accusations of cost overruns. But Claudio Monteiro, the head of the government's World Cup committee in Brasilia responsible for oversight, said the audit court's allegations are simply wrong and that all spending on the Brasilia stadium would be justified. "This report comes out just 100 days before the Cup? That's why I say they're trying to spoil the party," Monteiro said from his office outside the stadium. "We're going to show how this report is off base." Monteiro is the former chief of staff to Brasilia's Gov. Agnelo Queiroz, a position he was forced from in April 2012 amid accusations he was part of a widespread kickback scheme. That scandal also forced him to give up his seat on the World Cup committee, but no charges were filed and he returned to the post a few months later. Sports Minister Aldo Rebelo, a member of the Communist Party of Brazil, defended the legacy the Cup will leave behind for average Brazilians and said anybody responsible for misspent public funds would be found out. "No disservice will be done to the people because of this Cup," Rebelo said in a recent interview at his office, adorned with busts of Mao Zedong, Karl Marx and Abraham Lincoln. "If any corruption is proven, it will go through our legal system and punishments will be handed out for anyone found responsible." REUTERS/Kai Pfaffenbach The sun shines into the stadium one day ahead of the Confederations Cup opening match at the Mane Garrincha National Stadium in Brasilia June 14, 2013. In a poll last year three-fourths of respondents said the World Cup construction has been infused with corruption. Their anger fueled widespread and often violent anti-government protests last June that sent more than a million Brazilians into the street during FIFA's Confederations Cup soccer tournament, the warm-up event to the World Cup. Many protesters railed against corruption and the billions spent to host the events. The distrust isn't surprising in a nation where 40 percent of federal congressmen have criminal cases pending against them before the country's highest court, according to the watchdog group Congresso em Foco, bolstering concerns the rise in campaign contributions found by the AP likely influenced government spending on the Cup. The overall price of the 12 stadiums, four of which critics say will become white elephants after the tournament because they are in cities that cannot support them, has jumped to $4.2 billion in nominal terms, nearly four times the estimate in a 2007 FIFA document published just days before Brazil was awarded the tournament. At the time, leaders also promised the stadiums would be privately funded. "There's collusion of the Brazilian governmental elite with the business elite, and the game is rigged in their favor," said Christopher Gaffney, a professor at Rio's Federal University whose research focuses on the country's preparations for the World Cup and 2016 Olympics. "This was an opportunity to make a lot of money and that's what's happened." Andrade Gutierrez, which was awarded stakes in contracts totaling nearly one-fourth of the Cup's total price tag, contributed $73,180 in 2008 municipal elections. Four years later, after it was known which cities were hosting Cup matches and thus which political parties controlled the local governments that awarded and are overseeing Cup projects, the company's political contributions totaled $37.1 million. The 500-fold increase in Andrade Gutierrez's political spending far outpaced the overall 84-percent jump in corporate campaign contributions between the same two elections. It was in 2010, in between those two elections, that Andrade Gutierrez won bids to build or renovate four stadiums. The political contributions of Brazil's top builder, Odebrecht, also had a 127-fold increase between those two elections — from $90,909 in 2008 to $11.6 million in 2012. It also won four stadium contracts worth billions along with a much-criticized contract to operate Rio de Janeiro's Maracana stadium for 35 years. Rio state prosecutors have asked a court to force the renegotiation of the contract. They accuse the government of handing over a sweetheart deal to the Odebrecht consortium, which also includes the firms IMX of Brazil tycoon Eike Batista and Los Angeles-based entertainment giant AEG. The consortium will pay the government about $2 million a year — but prosecutors point out that doesn't even cover the $13.5 million a year the state must pay to service its 15-year loan to build the stadium. In emailed statements, both Andrade Gutierrez and Odebrecht noted that their donations were legal under Brazilian law. They didn't respond to questions about why their contributions had spiked so markedly in recent elections. The donations are virtually impossible to link directly to candidates. That's because nearly all the money was given to national parties and thrown into a single pot for them to distribute, obscuring ties between corporations and specific politicians. In March, Brazil's top electoral court mandated that money given by national party committees to candidates must indicate who originally gave the money to the committee. And more changes are coming. A majority of justices on the country's Supreme Court voted last month to ban future corporate political donations, citing corruption fears. A single justice demanded to delay a final vote, meaning the reform won't take effect for months, after the Cup is over. Corporate money in elections raises red flags in many nations, but it is especially serious in Brazil because the vast majority of campaigns are funded by corporations. In the last presidential elections, over 98 percent of campaign funds for both President Dilma Rousseff and her challenger Jose Serra came from big business, according to Transparency International's Brazil branch. REUTERS/Ueslei Marcelino Brazil's President Dilma Rousseff (L) and Brasilia's Governor Agnelo Queiroz (R) attend the inauguration of the National Mane Garrincha Stadium in Brasilia May 18, 2013. Bent Flyvbjerg, a professor at Oxford's Said Business School and one of the globe's foremost experts on global sports events, said that when countries opt to host them they're "basically writing a blank check." "Often people are late on these projects and the only thing they can do is throw money at them," Flyvbjerg said. "It's the only way to get them done." Construction companies know the events must be held on specific dates, which gives them leverage. The closer they get to that date and the more behind schedule preparations are, the more revenue they'll make — and FIFA says it's not seen any nation in the last four decades that's been further behind on Cup preparations than Brazil. Political pressure makes it worse. Few nations have portrayed the World Cup in a more transformative light than Brazil. In 2010, former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva met with officials from the 12 host cities, who promised to deliver ambitious works to fix Brazil's woeful public transportation system. Silva told those gathered that they weren't just making a commitment, but "signing a treaty before the Brazilian people that we'll not only host the World Cup, but the best World Cup." With charges about misspent money flying, and few public transportation works in sight, many feel the nation blew its chance to make real advances. Outside the stadium in Brasilia, security guard Paulo Rodrigues sought the shade of a jackfruit tree in the arena's parking lot on a recent afternoon. He smoked a cigarette down to the filter then used it to point up at the massive arena. "That's a monument to national sadness and waste," he said. "I'm not against the Cup, but I'm frustrated with the spending and the corruption we all know it involves. When politicians build a road, even if there are kickbacks, at least at the end we have a road. With this stadium, we have nothing." ___ Bradley Brooks on Twitter: www.twitter.com/bradleybrooks Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Richard Carson/ReutersGM CEO Daniel AkersonDETROIT (Reuters) - General Motors Co &lt;GM.N&gt;, already locked in a public relations crisis because of a deadly ignition defect that has triggered the recall of 2.6 million vehicles, has a new perception problem on its hands. The U.S. company is now considered the worst big automaker to deal with, according to a new survey of top suppliers to the car industry in the United States. The annual survey, conducted by the automotive consultant group Planning Perspectives Inc, asks the industry's biggest suppliers to rate their relationships with the six automakers that account for more than 85 percent of all light vehicle sales in the United States. Those so-called "Tier 1" suppliers say GM is now their least favorite big customer, according to the rankings, less popular even than Chrysler, the unit of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles &lt;FIA.MI&gt;, which since 2008 had consistently earned that dubious distinction. Suppliers gave GM low marks on all kinds of key measures, including its overall trustworthiness, its communication skills, and its protection of intellectual property. The suppliers also said that GM was the automaker least likely to allow them to raise prices to recoup unexpected material cost increases. "As a result, GM is now the least preferred customer of suppliers," PPI says. Nissan Motor Co Ltd &lt;7201.T&gt; overtook Ford Motor Co &lt;F.N&gt; for third place in PPI's Supplier Working Relations Index, pushing Dearborn-based Ford into fourth place. Toyota Motor Co &lt;7203.T&gt; and Honda Motor Co Ltd &lt;7267.T&gt; finished in the No. 1 and No. 2 spots, respectively. PPI, which has been conducting the survey for 14 years, says supplier perceptions of automakers are critical because they can determine which car makers see the suppliers' newest technologies first, get their best pricing and work with their best engineers. John Henke, the head of PPI and a research fellow at Center for Supply Chain Management at Rutgers University, said the Japanese sweep of the top three places suggested the industry "could be entering an era in supplier relations that doesn't bode well for the U.S. Big Three." The reason: the Japanese automakers are not just benefiting from a deterioration in relations between suppliers and the Big Three -- they are actually rising in the estimation of their suppliers. Toyota and Nissan, in particular, saw the percentage of suppliers who characterized their relationship with the two automakers as "good or very good" surge. GM, meanwhile, is in an especially unenviable spot, with 55 percent of the suppliers surveyed characterizing their relations with the automaker as "poor to very poor," up from 48 percent last year. One bit of good news for GM. When the list of car makers was expanded to include the three German auto companies, which have a far less significant market share in the U.S., suppliers said Daimler AG's &lt;DAIGn.DE&gt; Mercedes-Benz and Volkswagen AG &lt;VOWG_p.DE&gt; were even harder to deal with. But because BMW &lt;BMWG.DE&gt; ranked second in the expanded list, just below Toyota but ahead of Honda, GM's overall position fell to seventh place in the supplier's best/worst rankings. (Reporting by James B. Kelleher in Detroit; Editing by Marguerita Choy) FREE AppDownload
ReutersMorgan Stanley's Joachim Fels — writing in his Sunday Start note — makes a simple, compelling argument for staying bullish, which is that all of the world's central banks will maintain easy policy for a long time, and that some of the major banks are actually going to be easing further in the near future. Fels writes: Well, the key thing to watch in this respect is how fast slack in the economy and particularly in the labour market might erode. My colleagues Ellen Zentner and Melanie Baker hone in on this question in their notes published this past week for the US and the UK, respectively, with a particular focus on wage growth as a measure of slack. For the US (see here), Ellen finds that smaller companies’ wage practices are a leading indicator for broader measures of wage growth such as the Employment Cost Index (ECI), and that the continued climb in the smaller companies’ gauge points to an acceleration in broader wage metrics later this year. However, the extent of acceleration should remain historically muted, which will buy time for the Fed. Similarly, for the UK, Melanie looks for only a modest pick-up in average earnings growth and some offset from productivity gains, so that the MPC can take its time in raising rates until mid-2015 or so (see here). Bottom line: we stick to our ‘low for longer view’ for US and UK official interest rates, but if we’re wrong it will most likely be because wage growth accelerates faster than we expect. Meanwhile, two other major central banks crept closer to easing policy further this past week: the ECB and the PBoC. In China, my colleague Helen Qiao notes here that with CPI inflation surprising on the downside in April (dropping to only 1.8%Y), the chances for monetary policy easing with a strong signalling effect, such as a RRR or an official interest rate cut, have increased significantly. And in the euro area, Mario Draghi (see Quote of the Week below) dropped a surprisingly clear hint that a cut in the refi rate, and potentially also the depo rate, in June is in the offing, in line with my colleague Elga Bartsch’s long-standing call (see ECB Watch: Arrivederci a Giugno!). Taken together, with all the major central banks on hold for longer or even easing further, the grab for yield looks set to continue. Let the good times roll! So the Fed and the BoE still have plenty of time before they're forced into action, and the ECB and the PBOC will probably make easing moves next. Hence his final line: Let the good times roll! FREE AppDownload
REUTERSSouthern Bluefin Tuna, the primary catch for the luxury Japanese sashimi trade, is inspected at a Tokyo fish market.One of the big stories of the year has been the collapse of momentum stocks. Red hot areas like social networking, biotech, and fuel cells have gotten destroyed. So what if you've been holding these stocks all the way down? Will they bounce back? In his latest Weekly Kickstart note, Goldman's David Kostin has some bad news. The momentum stocks of yesterday don't quickly become the momentum stocks of tomorrow. Once that story is over, that story is over. He writes: ‘Indiscriminate selling’ is the phrase that most accurately captures the view of many investors regarding the momentum drawdown since early March. Fund managers argue that the broad sell-off in high expected growth stocks affected some firms that in their view did not merit a de-rating. However, once significant momentum drawdown occurs, the momentum factor is typically not associated with subsequent market leadership although the S&amp;P 500 gains an average of 5% during the next six months. Instead, low momentum, low valuation, and low growth are usually winning factors. Similarly, buying stocks with the highest EV/sales ratios typically underperforms the S&amp;P 500 during the following 1-, 3-, and 5-year periods, regardless of the sales growth that is actually delivered. In contrast, low EV/sales stocks typically beat the market over the same time horizons irrespective of the revenue growth that is delivered. So there are two factors working against those former red hot stocks. One is that momentum doesn't typically comeback.  The other is that buying stocks with high enterprise value-to-sales ratios isn't generally a winner after a market regime change. So if you're holding on to some of these names, there's a good chance, according to Goldman, that you're holding on to dead money.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jeff ZelevanskyTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, November 28, 2007. According to Goldman Sachs' Weekly Kickstart note, there are three big things that Goldman Sachs clients ask about: Three questions dominated our investor dialogue this week given the lack of meaningful data releases. (1) Interest rates: The recent decline in ten-year US Treasury yields to 2.6%, the forward path of interest rates, and implications for equity valuation; (2) Capex: the outlook for corporate capital spending in 2014; and (3) Rotation: The potential for the momentum drawdown of the past two months to reverse and vault high expected sales growth companies back into a market leadership position. As for answers, Goldman says there's no "precise" answer to the big drop in Treasury yields, though it's consistent with declining growth and inflation expectations. On question number 2, Goldman does anticipate Capital Expenditures (CAPEX) accelerating, with growth of nearly 7% this year. And as for the final question, Goldman doesn't anticipate those old momentum darlings to resume leadership after they've been sold off so hard. Once a stock loses momentum, it's hard to get it back. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Arnd WiegmannGood morning! Markets are in the green today, although action is pretty quiet everywhere you look. There wasn't much news over the weekend, save for another referendum in another Easter Ukrainian region. And ostensibly the region voted to leave Ukraine, although nobody thinks the the results were particularly legitimate. So "rising Ukraine tension" might be a theme of the day. There's no US economic data today, and earnings season is winding down, so things may be fairly quiet. FREE AppDownload
