ReutersMembers of the Bai (L) and Dai ethnic minorities indigenous to China's southwestern province Yunnan drink Coca-Cola at the Stone Forest in Kunming March 18. The soft drink giant Coca-Cola formally opens its Kunming bottling plant on March 20 and is one of the first Fortune 500 companies to make a major investment in Yunnan province, one of China's poorest and least industrialized.The purchasing manger's index for China's industrial sector excluding non-manufacturing fell to 53.4 from 54.6, the lowest reading in more than a year, according to the South China Morning Post. The index, released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), is based on a survey by the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing of nearly 1,200 firms in 27 industries, including construction, transport and telecommunications. A reading above 50 means the sector is expanding; below 50, contracting. The business activity index for hotels, leasing, commercial services, postal services, marine transport, real estate and public utilities fell below the 50 threshold, with overall business volume falling. It's been a pretty mediocre day for PMI so far — click here to follow along with us live » FREE AppDownload
screengrab from FoxHenry Kravis and Michael Douglas If you were watching the Super Bowl, then you might've noticed this legendary image. It's of Henry Kravis sitting next to Michael Douglas. Most people know Michael Douglas for his role as Gordon Gekko, the greedy villain of the iconic film "Wall Street" and the sequel "Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps." Kravis, on the other hand is a bit more obscure.  He's one of the K's in the legendary private equity firm KKR, or Kohlberg Kravis &amp; Roberts. Kravis and KKR are behind some of the biggest private equity deals in history. They are also famous for their controversial leveraged buyout of RJR Nabisco, a deal so controversial that it became the subject of the book and movie "Barbarians At The Gate." Is greed good? That may be up for debate. Greed, however, does get you great seats at the Super Bowl. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jon WooWe just told you how Société Générale is warning that an economic perfect storm is brewing.  Emerging economies and Europe will prove the main catalysts, the firm said in a note. But in the report, it also said also honed in on China, an economy that they warn is at risk of slowing faster than the world is prepared for.   They write: Although China is not in a similar situation as many EM countries in focus, the risk of a hard-landing of the Chinese economy is not negligible. However, the most likely trigger is that Beijing's gradual deleveraging plan gets out of control, which would lead to shadow banking failures, a liquidity crunch and financial market turmoil. The Fed policy might play a supplementary role by giving extra incentives for capital outflows. Our central scenario is still one of a bumpy landing, with a below-consensus GDP growth forecast of 6.9% for 2014. The foremost reason is the persistent slowdown in credit growth since June last year, which looks set to continue throughout 2014. Decelerating investment growth will most likely follow and, more importantly, we expect disruptions in the Chinese financial market. Last week, China just narrowly avoided one trust product default, but it is not the end.  We think defaults will still occur during the year of the Horse, as having defaults is a necessary condition for a healthy financial market (thus good for the long run). Nonetheless, the transition away from 100% state guarantees will be nothing but risky (see editorial). Although we think that Chinese policymakers will be able to avoid a systematic financial crisis, the bumpy landing we foresee means that China is likely to remain a source of jitters to emerging markets in 2014, in addition to the Fed's policy. We saw the official reading for China's purchasing manager's index drop on Friday. On Tuesday we'll get the country's composite PMI. Meanwhile, click here to follow along with Global PMI Day » FREE AppDownload
Google ImagesLast week at the World Economic Forum in Davos, economist Nouriel Roubini told BI's Joe Weisenthal that it seemed   markets had sailed into a "mini-perfect storm," resulting in lots of volatility. "...Between Chinese PMI of 50, Argentina letting its currency go, noises coming politically from Ukraine, Turkey, and Thailand … [the] contagion is not just within emerging markets but also affects advanced economies' equity markets." On Sunday, the economists at Société Générale issued a similar warning using the same vivid imagery.  In a note to clients titled "Perfect Storm Brewing As Policy Turns," they write: Following a week of extreme volatility in emerging markets, many wonder if we are now heading for a perfect storm, with China increasingly sucked in and Europe's already low inflation falling further towards deflation. The current developments also mark a shift in markets' focus on where the need for policy change is the greatest - away from Europe where bond spreads remain resilient. We remain unconvinced, however, that the reforms to date in Europe are enough to raise growth sufficiently and put public debt trajectories on a sustainable path.  This is also implicit in recent papers discussing how to deal with bailouts and debt restructuring in Europe (see for instance the Bundesbank). Notwithstanding the current signs of a genuine cyclical upturn in Europe, we fear that the lack of growth-enhancing reform will soon again show up in disappointing nominal growth. For the week ahead we expect continued market nervousness, with China having set the mood early in the week, while European and US data later in the week should provide some stability. We'll be following whether things calm down at all as thousands of companies around the world reveal the state of the global economy. Click here to follow BI's coverage of Global PMI Day » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS / Kim Hong-JiForeign currency dealers in Seoul, South Korea.We just got a so-so reading from South Korea's manufacturing sector, and Asian markets are continuing their early Monday declines. Japan's Nikkei is off 0.6%. Korea's Kospi is off  0.5%. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX200 is off 0.3%. But U.S. futures are up. As is gold. Click here to follow along with Global PMI Day » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lee Jae WonSouth Korea's headline PMI improved by just a tenth of a point in January, to 50.9 from 50.8. But it was the fourth-consecutive month of a reading above 50, signaling expansion. New orders climbed at the the sharpest rise in nine months, and the employment sub-index climbed for the third-straight month HSBC economist Ronald Man commented: “Manufacturing conditions continue to improve in Korea, boosted by stronger new orders on the external front. Payrolls also expanded for the third consecutive month. This suggests that Korea is on track for a gradual export-led recovery. But downside risks from financial   volatilities still loom. Thus we expect Korean officials to   maintain an accommodative stance to support growth for now.”   Here's the chart for the headline survey: HSBC/Markit  FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Federal ReserveChairman Ben Bernanke receives a standing ovation at the Board meeting in Washington, DC on Jan, 27, 2014.The next 24 hours will be huge. In fact, the whole week will be huge. "This week’s data docket will be important in shaping investors’ initial expectations for current quarter GDP growth with January manufacturing ISM, ADP employment and January nonfarm payrolls," said Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna who described this week as "the Super Bowl of economic data." Meanwhile, we'll also see Janet Yellen sworn in as the new chair of the Federal Reserve. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary In the wake of all the market volatility that has put stocks in the red for the year, investors and traders are looking for reasons why the bull market, which began in March 2009, may be over. However, there isn't always a catalyst that sends stocks lower. Sometimes, it's just time for stocks to fall. "We've gone for an awfully long time without a correction," noted UBS's Art Cashin to CNBC on Friday. "Bull markets tend to have a maximum life of five years. We're getting awfully close to that." FREE AppDownload
Bill Weir of CNN just tweeted this extraordinary photograph of Len Dawson, the quarterback of the Kansas City Chiefs, during halftime of Super Bowl 1 in 1967 (See the original photo here). A few things to notice: First, Dawson looks like a skinny little shrimp compared to today's players. Look at those legs. They look like toothpicks. Second, he appears to be drinking a Fresca. A Fresca! Third, he's smoking a cigarette.  Len Dawson enjoys a halftime smoke during Superbowl 1. http://t.co/s2G7hHVRas pic.twitter.com/1ZdOrHkSwL FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesLas Vegas sports book? Or a Wall Street trading floor? (It's Vegas)Many Wall Streeters love to dabble in sports betting. And you can bet that many of them are wagering on this year's Super Bowl.   The Super Bowl is one of the biggest sports betting events in the world every year attracting both professional and amateur bettors globally.  In Wall Street terms, we've been told that betting on the Super Bowl is like trading S&amp;P 500 futures contracts. The S&amp;P futures contract is the most liquid equity index product in the world.  Similarly, the Super Bowl is one of the most liquid sports betting events.   Many of the strategies and tactics bettors use are analogous to what we see on Wall Street.   Prominent Las Vegas sports bettor, Ted Servansky (a.k.a "Teddy Covers") explained the similarities between the sports betting world and Wall Street in an recent interview.  Can you talk about how sports betting is similar to Wall Street?  There's a common misconception about sports betting that was true twenty and thirty years ago that's simply not true today. And that of course is the concept that bettors are playing against the sportsbook. We're not playing against a sportsbook anymore. We're playing against a global marketplace. The money flow globally on sports betting is enormous. It's well into the billions and billions; plural. For a game like the Super Bowl, globally you're probably talking about billion dollar handles. When you think about that through the course of the entire year, it's a lot more than that. So it's not a bettor versus the bookie or the book, it's a bettor versus the marketplace and that's a very similar concept to what we see on Wall Street. It's not you against the house when you're trying to pick a rising stock. It's you and your valuation against the market valuation. So you could compare picking winning teams to picking winning stocks? Absolutely. I'm a day trader. I'm a day trader and my market is sports betting. The vast majority of wagers that I'm going to make are decided in a relatively short time frame. Of course, one big difference on Wall Street is you can take a small loss.  When you pick a stock and you go, 'Oh it's not doing what I thought it was going to do' and you can get out of it and it's sports betting, generally, it's double or nothing. Although with live betting now, there are many ways to get out of bets even after you've made them.  Covers also discussed how he builds a portfolio of bets, which include various prop bets. He also addressed line variance, which traders might consider to be an arbitrage opportunity. Read our full interview here &gt; FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsHeads up everyone: Things are about to get really busy! We're not talking about the Super Bowl — although there's that too — but with the avalanche of economic news that's coming our way. First, to set the scene, last week was one of the more volatile weeks in global markets that we've seen in a long time. Stocks ended the week with two straight down days, resulting in the worst January for stocks since 2010. Over the weekend, the official Chinese PMI report confirmed an economic slowdown, as manufacturing hit its worst level in six months, a fact that acts as a drag on global emerging markets. As for the data, we get more PMI Manufacturing reports starting tonight with Korea at 7 p.m. ET. The monthly PMI reports will continue through the night and into tomorrow morning, offering us a fresh look at the overall health of the economy. In addition to all of the manufacturing reports, we have car sales and construction spending tomorrow. So yeah, a lot of top shelf data. And of course, the rest of the week will be busy as well, culminating with the jobs report on Friday. We'll be covering all the data at Business Insider LIVE. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrew KellyI generally vote Democratic in presidential elections because I generally agree with the Democrats on social and other issues. (Democrats are generally for "small government" on social issues, for example, whereas today's Republicans often want to restrict choice, legislate personal morality, link Christian church and state, and otherwise have the government intrude in places where I don't think the government should be, which I find annoying and un-American.) That said, I'm sympathetic to some Republican views on fiscal conservatism and personal responsibility, and I don't think the answer to every problem is "more government." In some areas, in fact, I think the answer is probably "less government." So, if the Republicans were ever to produce a presidential candidate I like who is reasonable on social issues and strong and smart on economics (as opposed to being an ideologue), I would make the ideal "swing voter" who might help the Republicans capture the White House again. For the last couple of years, I have thought that this Republican candidate might be Chris Christie, the famous governor of New Jersey. I find Christie's views on some social issues (gay marriage, for example) offensive and un-American. But I like his no-nonsense, practical approach to the budget and getting things done. And I love the fact that he's willing to say and do things that run counter to the Republican Party's talking points. This shows independence of thought and fortitude that I admire and like. So I was thinking that it might be possible that I would end up voting for Chris Christie, who seemed to be the obvious Republican front-runner. But now I'm increasingly worried that Chris Christie is a thug. This is not just because of the order-up-a-traffic-jam-to-punish-a-political-opponent scandal. Yes, that's bad, and, regardless of whether Christie knew about it or ordered it, it reflects badly on the tone of leadership he sets in his administration. But subordinates do sometimes do things that their bosses are horrified by, and, for now, I am willing to believe that it's possible that Christie really did know nothing about it and was actually shocked and appalled when it was brought to his attention. It's also the way Christie is behaving now that the traffic scandal has been exposed. First, he torched the deputy chief of staff who ordered the traffic jam. Yes, he had to reprimand and disown her, but even if Christie didn't implicitly sanction the jam, he could have done more to show how bizarrely out of character this behavior was for his administration and how disappointed and betrayed he felt. Second, and far more saliently, he has now completely torched a former political ally — the guy who actually created the traffic jam.  In a startlingly long and harsh statement released yesterday, Christie's team invoked the man's behavior in high school to nuke his credibility. The man's high school social studies teacher, Christie's team triumphantly reported, once accused him of doing something deceptive. (Something deceptive? What, exactly? And if the man did, once, in high school, do something that someone found deceptive, is this really relevant 30 years later? Has Chris Christie never, ever done something deceptive? Never? Even in high school?) Yes, this man's assertion that Chris Christie knew about (and, therefore, sanctioned, if not directly ordered) the traffic jam has the potential to destroy Christie's political career. But still ... the vehemence and vindictiveness of Christie's attack on the man was startling. This sort of attack doesn't make Christie look like an independent, statesmanlike leader who has the fortitude to make hard decisions and stand up for what he believes.  It makes him look like a thug. And I don't want to vote for a president who is a thug. FREE AppDownload
Teddy CoversTeddy CoversAside from the World Cup in Brazil, the Super Bowl will be the biggest sports betting event this year. According to professional sports bettors, there will be billions being wagered globally.  What's interesting about the sports betting world, is that many of the strategies and tactics used by both professionals and amateurs are similar to what we see on Wall Street.  You don't bet all of your money on just win or lose. You bet on spreads, and you can diversify your portfolio of bets with various prop bets, which are the side bets that often have little to do with the ultimate outcome of the game. We recently spoke with Vegas-based sports bettor/ESPN columnist Ted Servansky (a.k.a. "Teddy Covers") about the sports betting scene right now, and what he's looking at in his own Super Bowl portfolio.   Teddy Covers has been sports betting professionally in Las Vegas for 17 years. It's basically how he makes his living.  This year, the pro bettors—or "Wiseguys"—are putting their money on the Seattle Seahawks to pull off a victory against the Denver Broncos, according to Covers.  Meanwhile, the amateurs have been pouring their money into the Broncos for the most part. We've included a Q&amp;A from our conversation. (Editor's Note: This interview has been lightly edited for clarity.)  Business Insider: What's the vibe like right now in Vegas in the sports betting scene?  Teddy Covers: This game has a dramatic, sharp square divide... Out in the hinterlands there's nothing but Denver support, heavy Denver support. The professional bettors are pretty much lined up on the Seattle side. So there really is a pretty strong dichotomy between what the pros are doing and what the 'Joes' are doing for the Super Bowl. And the fact that everyone is mixing here in Vegas as we always do...there's a fairly wide diversity of opinion, which again is good for bettors regardless of which side you like because it ensures line variance and that's such a strong...key point. Line variance is a wonderful thing to have.  Can you talk more about line variance is?  Line variance means that if you shop around from one sports book to the next you can find a difference in the line. When you buy a share of Google at any given moment it doesn't matter if you buy it from your broker or if you buy it from some exchange. It doesn't matter where you buy the share [of Google], it's going to be the same price at that given moment everywhere. There's no diversity. With sports betting, every half point that you get in your favor is worth about—long-term—anywhere between 0.5% and 1% to your bottom line. So, when you have a situation where there's a two point line variance, which is a fairly big line variance then from one sports book to the next, it means if you like Denver you can find Denver -1 and get slightly the best of it. If you like Seattle, you can find Seattle +2.5 and I do think we are going to see 3 for the Seahawks between now and kick off. Three, of course, is called 'key number' in the NFL. More games are decided by exactly three points than any other margin, so when you get a +3 it's not a little edge, it's a significant edge.  Which team do you think is going to win? I like either side, plus 3. I think this game is going to be tight. I think it's going to come down to the final possession. And, I'm still looking for Seattle, plus 3 to pop up here in Vegas. Like I said, I do think that will happen. But at the moment, I don't have a dime of Seattle in my pocket even though Seattle is the side I want to support. What I have in my pocket is a little bit of Denver. I had to pick them because I saw the line was moving and I figured now is the time. You have to get involved right now as the line is jumping around because I don't think that line is going to be there. So I put a little bit in Denver in my portfolio. What I really want is Seattle, plus three.  Can you talk to us about some of the prop bets that you have in your Super Bowl portfolio right now?  I have Total Sacks under 4 and 1/2. That's -155. There's juice attached to that. And with many of the prop bets that I make, I will be laying a fair bit of 'juice'. There's a simple thought process. In general, recreational players are looking to bet a little bit to win a lot. And in general, professional bettors are more than willing to lay a price to win a little. So, I'm comfortable laying some extra juice with this particular wager because 4 1/2 sacks is a lot considering that Peyton Manning doesn't take sacks and Manning and...Russell Wilson has that scramble ability that allows him to escape a front presser at times. So you put those two factors together and with the fact that neither team is particularly blitz heavy team and the other 4 1/2 sacks is a great bet.  Can you talk to me a bit more about your prop bet portfolio?  I like Russell Wilson to run the football. So I've got Russell Wilson's longest rush of the game over 11.5 yards. And I have his total rushing yards over 30.5 yards. And the thought process here, Denver hasn't seen a mobile quarterback all year and I would expect that he [Wilson] would have two opportunities to make big plays...One, I think there are a handful of designed plays for Wilson to be running the football and the Broncos pass rush I think will afford him some opportunity to scramble out of the pocket as well. So, I like Russell Wilson to have a pretty big game on the ground. And, of course, those two wagers together, if you get a nice scramble you can cash both tickets on one play. That's what I'm hoping for.    Talk to me more about the Super Bowl. Is this the Holy Grail of sports betting?  The Super Bowl is like Christmas morning for sports bettors. It really is. Even the very casual wagerers tend to get involved in this. The guys who bet once or twice a year come out of the woodwork to get involved with the Super Bowl. When we talk about all the props and I gave you one with the sacks, there are literally as many has 400 proposition wagers available here in Las Vegas for the game. When you talk about the props, that's what the 'Wiseguys' love about the Super Bowl. And what makes the Super Bowl so unique as a betting event is it's the only day like this.  You tossed around the term 'Wiseguys' and you consider yourself one. Tell us what a Wiseguy is.  A Wiseguy is just terminology for someone who bets with positive expectations. Wiseguys are called 'Sharps.' We're called 'professional bettors.' The slang term is 'Wiseguy'.  It's been floating around Vegas for who knows how long. The concept is that for Wiseguys, or shark bettors or professional bettors it's not about the action, it's about making positive expectation wagers. We have a positive ROI when we make them long term. And that is the single biggest difference between a square bettor or a 'Joe' or a recreational player  (they all mean the same thing) versus the Wiseguys.  So could you pick a Wiseguy out of the crowd?  The classic Wiseguy outfit is not a suit and tie guy. It's the guy wearing sweatpants with a big fat roll of hundred dollar bills wrapped up in a rubber band. I mean that's the Wiseguy outfit. If I'm standing by the betting windows at the Superbook at the LVH, you can easily tell the type of wagers that professional bettors, or Wiseguy bettors, tend to be very different from the type of wagers that recreational guys make.  How does on get to become a professional sports bettor?  It's simple. When you're able to make a living off the wagers that you make, then you are officially a professional sports bettor....In order to become a professional bettor, it's simply a matter of honing your skills and raising a bankroll that will allow you to play in high enough stakes to be able to bet enough to earn your living.  Can you talk about how sports betting is similar to Wall Street?  There's a common misconception about sports betting that was true twenty and thirty years ago that's simply not true today. And that of course is the concept that bettors are playing against the sportsbook. We're not playing against a sportsbook anymore. We're playing against a global marketplace. The money flow globally on sports betting is enormous. It's well into the billions and billions plural. For a game like the Super Bowl, globally you're probably talking about billion dollar handles. When you think about that through the course of the entire year, it's a lot more than that. So it's not a bettor versus the bookie or the book, it's a bettor versus the marketplace and that's a very similar concept to what we see on Wall Street. It's not you against the house when you're trying to pick a rising stock. It's you and your valuation against the market valuation. So you could compare picking winning teams to picking winning stocks?  Absolutely. I'm a day trader. I'm a day trader and my market is sports betting. The vast majority of wagers that I'm going to make are decided in a relatively short time frame. Of course, one big difference on Wall Street is you can take a small loss.  When you pick a stock and you go, 'Oh it's not doing what I thought it was going to do' and you can get out of it and it's sports betting, generally, it's double or nothing. Although with live betting now, there are many ways to get out of bets even after you've made them.  What are some of the common mistakes people make when sports betting?  The single biggest mistake people make is not line shopping....The biggest mistake recreational players have is they don't shop for the best number. Other mistakes include not getting involved early and only getting involved right before kick off. That's certainly something that most amateur bettors do. They're not going to even think about the game or their bets until game day.  Do you have a lesson that you learned that really stuck with you during your sports betting career?  Unfortunately, I have dozens [laughs]. The first lesson I learned as a bettor even before I moved to Vegas, I had a Bowl season back in the mid 90s where I didn't do a whole lot of research, I bet with my head instead of my heart and I got my clock cleaned. I mean cleaned! There were two lessons learned there. One, don't ever bet more than you can afford to lose. And two, if you are going to be betting you may as well be betting smart.  Meaning, start using your head. Start doing your research. Stop screwing around. Those two lessons went hand-in-hand and without those two lessons I wouldn't be here in Vegas.   FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Tobias SchwarzFRANKFURT (Reuters) - Investors including U.S. hedge fund Elliott Associates have escalated a legal battle against members of Porsche's supervisory board by seeking 1.8 billion euros ($2.43 billion) in damages from Wolfgang Porsche and his cousin Ferdinand Piech. The most recent lawsuit forms part of a legal campaign being waged by hedge funds in various courts across the world, seeking to recoup money which was lost by betting on a decline of Volkswagen's share price in 2008. On Sunday, Porsche dismissed the most recent lawsuit, which was lodged at a Frankfurt regional court, as "unfounded". Ferdinand Piech and Wolfgang Porsche were not immediately available for comment. A spokesman for Elliott Associates declined to comment. "Porsche SE and its supervisory board members will defend themselves with all available legal means," Porsche said on Sunday, adding that the lawsuit in Frankfurt was no different to a separate lawsuit already pending in Hanover. The funds have accused Porsche of engineering a "massive short squeeze" in October 2008 by quietly buying nearly all freely traded ordinary VW shares in a bid to take over the company, despite publicly stating it had no plans to do so. Porsche's attempt to buy up much-larger rival VW ultimately failed, but hedge funds are still suing the Stuttgart-based company and its managers for alleged market manipulation. Porsche says the allegations are unfounded. Piech and Porsche are both members of the clan which owns Porsche SE, and hedge funds argue that as supervisory board members, they were informed about moves to buy up a VW stake. Piech was chief executive of VW before becoming chairman of its supervisory board. In March 2008, Porsche SE dismissed as "speculation" talk that it intended to take over VW. Seven months later Porsche SE revealed it held 42.6 percent of VW's common shares as well as controlling another 31.5 percent via financial instruments. When Porsche revealed it had amassed control of roughly three-quarters of the shares in Volkswagen Group, shares in the Wolfsburg-based carmaker soared to 1,005 euros, briefly making it the world's biggest company by market value. Hedge funds which had bet on a decline in the VW stock price made massive losses, prompting them to sue in various courts. In December 2012, a New York judge dismissed a case brought by hedge funds including Glenhill Capital LP, David Einhorn's Greenlight Capital LP and Chase Coleman's Tiger Global LP, arguing the state was the wrong place to bring such a lawsuit, saying instead that the case was more appropriate for Germany. Hedge funds have since pressed their case against Porsche's management and supervisory board in courts in Stuttgart, Braunschweig, Hanover and now in Frankfurt. Porsche SE's attempts to buy VW backfired and pushed it to near-bankruptcy. Instead of buying VW, the company ended up selling its sports car business, Porsche AG, to VW. German weekly magazine Der Spiegel was first to report that hedge funds are seeking damages from Ferdinand Piech and Wolfgang Porsche. (Reporting by Edward Taylor Ilona Wissenbach and Jan Schwartz; Editing by Catherine Evans) FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesDave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus passes along the big stories that traders are chatting about today. Here's some of the big ones. Chinese manufacturing activity slipped to its lowest level in six months, with indications of slowing growth for the quarter to come in the world’s second-largest economy - The National Bureau of Statistics said its purchasing managers’ index (PMI) for January slipped to 50.5, a reading just above the threshold for quickening growth. While output was still expanding, a sub-index for new export orders hovered for the second month below the midpoint, indicating slowing growth, and pointing to a lull in factory operations for the next few months (FT) Japan is on course to break a pledge to balance its budget by 2020, according to a new government forecast that sets up a battle between fiscal hawks at the ministry of finance and doves in the cabinet of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe - Private sector economists have long seen as ambitious the government’s goal of erasing its primary deficit – the gap between revenues and expenditure, excluding debt payments and bond issuance. (FT) Developing nations have been forced to sell Treasuries and use the proceeds to arrest domestic currency weakness, driving a drop in their custody holdings at the Federal Reserve - Official holdings dropped by $21 billion in the week to Jan. 29, the biggest decline since the period to June 26, Fed data show. (Bloomberg) Euro-area government bonds rallied as slowing inflation boosted speculation that the European Central Bank will take more measures to stimulate the economy - German 30-year bunds rose for a fourth week, the longest run since April, before the ECB meets next week to set monetary policy, having lowered the main refinancing rate to a record 0.25 percent in November. (Bloomberg) Republican Leader Sees Senate Raising Debt Limit Without Strings (Bloomberg) President Barack Obama is running out of reasons to say no to Keystone XL, the proposed oil pipeline that's long been looming over his environmental legacy - Five years after the pipeline's backers first asked the Obama administration for approval, the project remains in limbo, stuck in a complex regulatory process that has enabled Obama to put off what will inevitably be a politically explosive decision. But the release Friday of a long-awaited government report removes a major excuse for delay, ramping up pressure on the president to make a call. (AP) Jos. A. Bank Clothiers is in talks to buy fellow apparel retailer Eddie Bauer, according to people familiar with the matter. If consummated, the deal would dramatically shake up a takeover battle Jos. A. Bank has been waging with Men's Wearhouse (WSJ) Turkey’s problems extend past bond purchases and interest rates to questions about the stability of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s government (NYT) FREE AppDownload
Yes, private jets are swanky. But if you can spend less money to get an equally luxurious experience in first or business class, why not fly with an airline? A quick search turns up one-way first class flights from New York to Los Angeles for around $1,000. The same flight with private jet charter company JetSuite costs over $4,500 per passenger. That's a lot of money to justify for the added luxury of having no one else around.  To find out what the real benefits to flying private are, we spoke with Steve Cass, Vice President of Communications at private jet maker Gulfstream. It all comes down to saving time, which means saving money. It starts on the way to the airport. Small jets don't need the huge runways and staffs offered by major airports, so they can fly out of smaller spots. There are many more minor airports than major ones, so you often don't have to travel as far to get to one. And they're less congested, making the experience more pleasant. You don't have to deal with the TSA or long check-in lines, so you can you arrive at airport minutes, not hours, in advance. That's time, money, and aggravation saved. And when you get off, your bags are thrown right into your car, so there's no time spent at the baggage carousel. Plus, you fly when you want. Flying commercial, Cass said, "we adjust our schedule to meet the needs of the airline." In the sphere of private aviation, it's the other way around. Private flights aren't tied to the same hub and spoke networks used by airlines, so if your plane has enough fuel capacity to reach your destination, you'll go direct. "That saves a huge amount of time," Cass said. Private jets are usually designed to climb faster than airliners, so they're above crummy weather sooner. They usually fly faster, too. Commercial jets cruise around 35,000 feet, smaller jets typically fly higher. That puts them above the traffic, so their routes are more direct — they don't compete with bigger planes for space. The extra flexibility lets the jets capture better winds and avoid adverse weather, too. On top of moving faster and wasting less time, it's easier to get work done in the air when you're alone. Even in first or business class, Cass pointed out, it's risky to have confidential conversations, because you don't know who may be around. He also directed us to a 2009 survey by the National Business Aviation Association. Respondents rated themselves as 20% more productive while on company aircraft than in the office. Their counterparts flying commercial reported a 40% drop in productivity. So the next time you wonder why companies spend tens of millions to buy their own jets instead of putting employees on commercial fights, know that it's not about creature comforts. It's about saving time and money. FREE AppDownload
ArchivesThe New York Stock Exchange in 1929.As regular readers know, I have a cautious outlook for the stock market these days. I'm not predicting a crash, per se, but I would not be surprised if we saw one.  Mostly, I think that from today's levels, stocks are likely to deliver lousy returns for the next 7 or so years. I am holding onto my own stocks only because 1) I have a balanced portfolio and a long-enough investment horizon that I am comfortable with the possibility of stocks plunging, say, 50%, over the next year or two, and 2) the likely returns on bonds and cash are also lousy. Over the last few months, when I have aired this view, it has been met with snickering and ridicule, because stocks were still going up. Now, stocks have begun to go down, so more observers are voicing concern. (Market views follow the market.) But, by and large, the recent ~4% drop off the peak is viewed as a buying opportunity, not the start of a bear market. Most people think stocks are soon going to blast off to the moon.  For what it's worth, I have no idea whether the recent dip is the start of a bear market or whether stocks are going to blast off to the moon. I do know, though, that no one else knows, either. And I find the arguments that stocks are alarmingly expensive and vulnerable more persuasive and rigorous than the arguments suggesting that stocks are cheap and safe. I'm also not short stocks. I'm very long. I hope stocks continue to charge higher, but I just can't find much valid data to suggest that they will.  Meanwhile: None of this means that stocks will crash. But, the valuation data, at least, does suggest that, at best, stocks are likely to produce lousy returns over the next 10 years (0%-2% per year, including dividends). And what are the arguments that these concerns are silly and that stocks will keep rising? Perhaps you have more persuasive arguments than these as to why I should reconsider my cautious view of the stock market and become extremely bullish. If so, please share them. In the meantime, I'll tell you more about my concerns. For example, which valuation measures suggest the stock market is very overvalued? These, among others: (See charts below.) And what about profit margins? Why are they important? One of the reasons stocks have done so well over the past 5 years is that US companies have been able to hike their profit margins and profits every year, in part by firing people and replacing them with technology. The trouble with this is two-fold. First, it's not a sustainable way to grow profits: Margins can't go up for ever or eventually they'll be more than revenue. Second, by firing employees, companies are putting the actual spenders in the economy out of work. As a result, too many American consumers are still broke. And consumer spending accounts for about 70% of the economy. So the collective short-term effort of companies to grow earnings by cutting costs is actually making it harder for companies to grow revenue.  Below, some charts with more details on why I am concerned ... The following three charts show three long-term, time-tested valuation measures, all of which suggest the market is drastically overvalued. First, from Bill Hester of the Hussman Funds, a recent chart of Professor Robert Shiller's "CAPE" (cyclically-adjusted PE ratio). The blue line shows the prediction for 10-year returns. The red line shows the actual returns. If you have heard people say, "CAPE doesn't work anymore," you might want to read Bill Hester's analysis. He looks at all the arguments why CAPE doesn't work and concludes that it does. (We'll know for sure in 10 years.) Hussman Funds Second, in case you have been convinced that the "CAPE" ratio no longer works, here's a look at price-to-revenue. This measure is calling for a slightly better long-term return for the S&amp;P 500 — just under 5% — but still a far cry from the long-term average. Hussman Funds Third, in case your favorite bulls wave away both earnings and revenue, here's a chart of market-value-to-GDP. It's the most pessimistic of the lot. This chart suggests that the S&amp;P 500's average annual returns for the next 10 years will be negative. Hussman Funds One thing that people do when stocks get expensive is to find ways to explain why they aren't expensive. They don't do this to hoodwink you. They do this because stocks have been expensive for so long that the obvious conclusion must be that they're not expensive — that it's different this time. One measure that people are using right now to argue that stocks are not expensive is the difference between the "earnings yield" and "Treasury yield." Interest rates are low and earnings are high, so it appears that stocks are delivering far higher "yields" than bonds and are therefore cheap. The problem with this analysis is that it doesn't work. Check out this chart below from John Hussman, which "backtests" the analysis. It doesn't have any predictive power at all. Hussman Funds Over the long haul, stocks track profits. And profits and profit margins are at record highs. Every time previously that profit margins have gotten way above or below average, they have violently reverted to the mean. Many people, including me, think this will happen again this time. The only question is when. Here's a long-term look at profit margins. Note how high they are. Note what has happened every time this has been the case in the past. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Byron Wien, a strategist at Blackstone, is worried about profit margins. He also just circulated this chart, which he says suggests that profit margins are "rolling over." This, he says, is bad news for earnings in 2014. Blackstone, Wisdomtree John Hussman is also worried about profits. He thinks profit margins are so out of whack that corporate earnings will decline at 10% per year for the next four years. Hussman Funds Hussman thinks that two things might cause profits to tank: 1) the decline of government deficits (which have been going directly into corporate coffers), and 2) increasing labor costs, as the labor market gets tighter. Hussman believes that these factors are already causing profits to miss estimates. This, Hussman suggests, may be why there are suddenly way more companies missing profit estimates than beating them: Market timing is always tough, and I don't know when profits and the market might break down. That really is anyone's guess. John Hussman has posted a fun technical chart that addresses this question, though. Technical analysis is generally bunk, and I would never bet a dime on it. But it's also often fun. And this chart is especially fun. This chart, a "log-periodic bubble" analysis, suggests that the S&amp;P rise off the 2009 bottom has followed a clear "fractal" pattern that is often seen near the end of speculative advances. This chart suggests that the S&amp;P 500 (blue) might hit 1900 before collapsing. (It peaked around 1,850). According to Hussman, the chart also suggests that the market will peak between December 31, 2013 and January 13, 2014 — e.g., a few weeks ago. John Hussman, Hussman Funds Again, none of these indicators mean that the market will crash, let alone when. And market timing is a dangerous and destructive investment strategy. But the valuation measures, at least, do suggest that long-term stock returns from these levels are likely to be lousy. FREE AppDownload
If you make a big show of punishing someone, and when you're done they still don't think they have a behavior problem, you probably picked the wrong punishment. Every parent on earth knows this implicitly – but does the Obama White House finally get it, too, now, after Jamie Dimon's raise? When the board of JP Morgan Chase gave its blowdried, tirelessly self-regarding CEO a whopping 74 percent raise – after a year in which the Justice Department blasted the bank with $20 billion in sanctions – it was one of those rare instances where Main Street and Wall Street were mostly in agreement. Everyone from the Financial Times to Forbes.com to the Huffington Post decried the move. The Wall Street pundits mostly thought it was a dumb play by the Chase board from a self-interest perspective, one guaranteed to inspire further investigations by the government. Meanwhile, the non-financial press generally denounced the raise as a moral obscenity, yet another example of the serial coddling of Wall Street's habitually overcompensated executive class. Both groups were right. But to me the biggest news was how brutal an indictment Jamie's raise was of the Obama/Holder Justice Department, which continues to profoundly misunderstand the mindset of the finance villains they claim to be regulating. Chase's responses to Holder's record penalties have been hilarious. Their first move was to make sure people outside the penthouse boardroom took on all the pain, laying off 7,500 employees and freezing salaries for the non-CEO class of line employees. Next, Chase's board members sat down, put their misshapen heads together, considered the impact of this disastrous year of settlements, and decided to respond by more than doubling the take-home pay of the executive in charge, giving Dimon about $20 million in salary and equity. In the end, the fines left the decision-making class of the company not just uninjured but triumphant. Dimon's raise was symbolic of a company-wide boost in compensation following the mass layoffs, as average per-employee expenses rose four percent overall, to $122,653, despite the $20 billion burden imposed upon the firm by the state. There were a variety of reasons for the board's decisions, but one of the big ones, according to various reports, was that bank honchos wanted to send a message to the government that it believed the company had been unfairly treated. This was a notion Dimon himself snootily trumpeted just before his raise was announced. So Eric Holder and his lieutenants thought they were getting tough on Chase by dropping a monster settlement on the firm, but actually all they did was a) inspire the company to punish thousands of low-level innocent employees, while b) doubly- or triply-reinforcing the mass-narcissistic delusion gripping the company's management that the bank's serial ethical violations – which ranged from providing see-no-evil banking services, to Bernie Madoff, to rigging retail electricity prices, to covering up billions in losses in the "London Whale" episode – were the fault of someone else. Apparently the bank's board believed the Justice Department was simply caving in to anti-bank sentiment when it targeted Chase, not punishing real offenses. They seem to have decided their only "problem" was that the Justice Department lacked the political will to ignore the public's irrational cries for action. Again, if you punish a firm, and its executives come out of the episode convinced their only problem was an irrational PR issue, your enforcement strategy probably needs tweaking. It doesn't exactly send much of a message when, mere months after you've imposed record enforcement penalties, the CEO of your target company is being led down Wall Street on a donkey, board members showering him with cash.   In contrast, when the LIBOR scandal blew up in England, British authorities essentially removed Barclays CEO Bob Diamond from office right away, in addition to levying fines and other penalties. We never heard about Bob Diamond getting a raise after LIBOR because as far as the world is concerned, there is no more Bob Diamond. He could be on the moon for all we know. It's not jail, but it's still more of a punishment than Eric Holder dropped on Chase and Jamie Dimon. Moreover, when the Royal Bank of Scotland got caught up in the same LIBOR scandal, British and European regulators basically set up a base camp in the bank's backside, forcing the company to disclose all of its dirty laundry via a merciless long-term cooperation agreement that has already led to the exposure of another major scandal, the foreign exchange manipulation case. Meanwhile, in the U.S., Eric Holder drops a bunch of fines on the Chase corporate entity from 20,000 feet and then watches as bank leaders give themselves raises, force low-level underlings to pay the tab, and publicly denounce the settlements as undeserved. And get away with doing it. Well done, Justice Department! Way to flex those biceps! There is a school of thought that the massive fines should have worked, if only in the sense that they should have provided Chase with an incentive to avoid future investigations. Adam Hartung at Forbes put it this way, in his critique of the Chase board's decision: The Board of a troubled bank with billions in trading losses and billions in fines for illegal behavior decided to withhold employee pay raises, but double the CEO compensation, in order to snub the nose of the regulators who have been pointing out years of unethical, if not illegal, behavior?  The same regulators who might well see this very action as a good reason to heighten their investigations . . . ? This is some pretty tortured logic. Yes, that's tortured logic. But the whole point of this entire era of finance-sector corruption is that the leaders of these companies have not been logical. They've not only been depraved and antisocial from a corporate citizenship perspective, they haven't even acted in their own commerical interest. People like Holder still don't understand that the leaders of these rogue firms have no problem blowing up their own companies and/or imperiling the world economy, so long as they continue to personally get paid. Regulators have been blind to this for years, decades. It's why the Fed, the OCC, the OTS, the Justice Department and a host of other agenices missed incoming icebergs like the AIG and Lehman disasters, once upon a time. In fact, since the days of Alan Greenspan and his halcyon dreams of a future of pure self-regulation, the notion that corporate leaders will always act in the interest of their own firms – that they'll behave according to the principled corporate egoism that was an article of faith both for Ayn Rand and acolytes like Greenspan – has been a core basis for broad policies of regulatory restraint. Greenspan described his faith in corporate self-interest as the "whole intellectual edifice" guiding modern risk management. This edifice didn't admit the even theoretical existence of the corporate executive who behaves with capitalistically impure motives, i.e. the executive who treats his publicly-traded corporation like a mobster treats a restaurant, as a mark to be taken over and burgled for personal profit. But as we all know by now, when business leaders can get paid tens or hundreds of millions upfront for deals that take years to pan out (or not), when personal compensation isn't tied to the long-term performance of the company, executives will tend to leverage their firms to the hilt in search of short-term profits, and they won't think twice about zooming past safety thresholds. This is irrational behavior from a corporate perspective, sure, but totally rational from a personal-greed perspective. For instance, the men who ran Lehman Brothers, or the unit of AIG that sank that company, each walked away with hundreds of millions, rich forever. Angelo Mozilo pulled $132 million out of Countrywide in 2008 alone, even as all the rotten subprime loans he'd written over the years were collapsing and his company was losing $704 million that year. Ultimately even Greenspan conceded that individual greed trumps corporate greed. "Those of us who have looked to the self-interest of lending institutions to protect shareholder's equity," he told the House after the 2008 crash, "are in a state of shocked disbelief." So even Alan Greenspan figured this out eventually, but apparently Eric Holder and Barack Obama still haven't caught on. They decided last year to make a big show of punishing JP Morgan Chase as a symbol of bank corruption, then forgot to punish the actual people who oversaw the bank's misdeeds. This is a little like trying to rein in a class bully by halving his school's budget. It doesn't work. Crimes are committed by people, and justice has to target people, too. Or else the whole thing is a joke, as we found out last week. This article originally appeared at Rolling Stone.  Copyright 2014. Follow Rolling Stone on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderHere's an important way of thinking about what's going on in emerging markets right now. From The Guardian: Stephen Jen of currency hedge fund SLJ Macro Partners said: "Many of these emerging-market economies [including Turkey] are cornered: they have to choose between defending the exchange rate, fighting inflation and supporting growth. Sudden stops in capital inflows tend to force countries to face lose-lose situations." India, Indonesia, South Africa and Brazil, which were grouped with Turkey recently as "the Fragile Five" by Morgan Stanley, are in the same boat, as are Argentina and Russia. Each has its own special circumstances, but they share problems that have left investors disenchanted. There's no obvious play here for emerging markets.  Faced with weak growth and domestic strife, investors are yanking their money out of these economies. This is causing currencies to collapse, threatening inflation. Central banks, like those in Turkey, South Africa and India, can raise rates, but a sharp hike in rates will slow the economy. FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (AP) — The bull market that began in March 2009 has endured a few stumbles. The latest sell-off through Friday brought the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index down 3.6 percent from an all-time high of 1,848.38 on Jan. 15. The decline wasn't even close to a correction, a short-term drop of 10 percent or more. The last one took place more than two years ago — during the summer of 2011. Since then, the market has absorbed three significant setbacks. Here's a rundown of setbacks and slides during the current bull run: TIME FRAME: June 13-June 24, 2013 HOW BAD WAS IT? The S&amp;P 500 falls 63.27 points in four trading days, or 3.9 percent. WHY IT HAPPENED: Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke spooks investors by saying in mid-June that the central bank is preparing to start pulling back on its bond-buying economic stimulus program, if the economy improves enough. The warning from Bernanke is enough to send the Dow Jones industrial average falling more than 500 points in two days. The Fed's bond-buying program helped lift stock prices by making bonds more expensive in comparison. TIME FRAME: Oct. 17-Nov. 15, 2012 HOW BAD WAS IT? The S&amp;P 500 loses 107.59 points in a month, or roughly 7.4 percent. WHY IT HAPPENED: Politics and the economy. Wall Street is hit by a batch of bad corporate earnings, which pushes the market lower initially. Also, investors want clarity out of the 2012 Election regarding taxes and the debt ceiling. They get neither. President Obama is re-elected and Republicans keep control of the House of Representatives, guaranteeing that political gridlock will continue for the next two years at least. The S&amp;P falls 2.4 percent the day after the election. TIME FRAME: April 30-June 1, 2012 HOW BAD WAS IT? The S&amp;P 500 loses 125.31 points over the course of a month, or 8.9 percent. WHY IT HAPPENED: Just like the stock market correction in 2011, the sell-off starts in Europe and spreads to the U.S. Investors worry about Greece possibly leaving the eurozone. Meanwhile, Spain has trouble with its banks. The S&amp;P 500 comes within one point of being in correction territory, while the Nasdaq composite technically enters into one. TIME FRAME: July 22-Oct. 3, 2011 HOW BAD WAS IT? This is the market's last correction. The S&amp;P 500 plunges 238.19 points over the course of two-and-a-half months, a decline of 17.8 percent. While severe, it is not enough to be considered a "bear" market, which is a peak-to-trough fall of 20 percent or more. WHY IT HAPPENED: Investors are hit on two fronts: Europe and Washington D.C. In Europe, the continent's ongoing debt crisis once again becomes front-page news. Greece comes dangerously close to default, requiring a 109 billion euro bailout. In the U.S., President Obama and House Republicans are unable to agree on a debt ceiling, which results in the credit agency Standard &amp; Poor's downgrading the United States' credit rating. The day after the downgrade, the Dow drops 634 points. TIME FRAME: June 12-July 8, 2010 HOW BAD WAS IT? S&amp;P 500 falls for six days from mid- to late June, then again in the first week of July. It is a total loss of 66.65 points, or 7 percent. WHY IT HAPPENED: A strengthening dollar disrupts a three-month rally. The market recovers somewhat in late June but gets whacked again on July 2 after the government reports severe job losses and rising unemployment in June. TIME FRAME: April 23-May 7, 2010 HOW BAD WAS IT? The S&amp;P 500 falls 106.40 points in 10 trading days, or 8.7 percent. WHY IT HAPPENED: Markets take a skeptical view of Europe's efforts to contain a debt crisis in Greece. Investors fear that a crisis of confidence in Europe's shared currency, the euro, could ripple through the global financial system, much as the meltdown in subprime mortgages did in 2007. TIME FRAME: Jan. 20-22, 2010 HOW BAD WAS IT? S&amp;P 500 falls 58.47 points in three days, or 5.1 percent. WHY IT HAPPENED: Stocks start falling after China says it would pull back on bank lending to cool its superheated economy. Then President Barack Obama announces his latest move to crack down on U.S. banks, proposing rules to restrict their trading and prevent further consolidation. TIME FRAME: Oct. 20-30, 2009 HOW BAD WAS IT? S&amp;P 500 falls 61.72 points over nine trading days, or 5.6 percent. WHY IT HAPPENED: Stocks falter after reaching their highest level in a year as danger signs emerge on the economy, including a drop in new home sales and weaker consumer spending. The S&amp;P 500 ends down for October, breaking a streak of seven straight months of gains. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Jeff Zelevansky / GettyPaul Krugman weighed in this week on the turmoil in emerging markets. He connected the turmoil to weak economic performance in developed markets, and the mad rush by investors to seek return anywhere they can get it. What we're seeing now is the downside of that — basically the argument is that Turkey (et al) are like subprime, and that they represented a search for returns in an economic environment that was very poor. Now that's blowing up. You may or may not have heard that there’s a big debate among economists about whether we face “secular stagnation.” What’s that? Well, one way to describe it is as a situation in which the amount people want to save exceeds the volume of investments worth making. When that’s true, you have one of two outcomes. If investors are being cautious and prudent, we are collectively, in effect, trying to spend less than our income, and since my spending is your income and your spending is my income, the result is a persistent slump. Alternatively, flailing investors — frustrated by low returns and desperate for yield — can delude themselves, pouring money into ill-conceived projects, be they subprime lending or capital flows to emerging markets. This can boost the economy for a while, but eventually investors face reality, the money dries up and pain follows. If this is a good description of our situation, and I believe it is, we now have a world economy destined to seesaw between bubbles and depression. And that’s not an encouraging thought as we watch what looks like an emerging-markets bubble burst. This is an idea that Larry Summers got a lot of attention for late last year in a speech about secular stagnation, the idea that basically the economy is continually underperforming, and so in the absence of good returns, we keep seeing speculative bubbles being formed. This is, of course, is only one part of the emerging-markets story. The big countries that people are talking about (Turkey, South Africa, Argentina, etc.) each have distinct stories that makes them problematic. But when you see this big global rush of money in and out of groups of countries, it makes sense to tie it to a bigger issue.   FREE AppDownload
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR Global Not surprisingly, as emerging markets came under serious stress in the past week, investors pulled billions of dollars out of the asset class, marking the biggest weekly outflow since August 2011. According to the latest EPFR data, EM equity funds got hit with $6.3 billion of redemptions, and EM debt funds suffered $2.7 billion of withdrawals. "EM outflows have only just started," says Alain Bokobza, head of strategy at Société Générale. EPFR Global, Datastream, SG Cross Asset Research/Global Asset AllocationCumulative inflows into EM equities funds and ETFs; monthly data since 2007. EM market capitalisation relative to U.S."Given the exceptionally strong link between EM equity performance and flows, we think it plausible that funds are currently withdrawing double that from EM equity." Even though the term "emerging markets" encompasses a wide range of investment destinations, investors aren't being very discerning at the moment. "Mutual fund and ETF investors in EMs both favour global EM funds," says Bokobza. "Regional or country specialisation is less common (less than 47% of global EM assets). The implication is that all EM markets face outflows currently, with little discrimination between the countries that are most exposed and those which are more defensive." While Bokobza sees "no early end to EM asset de-rating," others are taking a more sanguine tack following the announcement of central bank rate hikes in key emerging markets like India, Turkey, and South Africa this week. "Much of the media (and not only on the financial pages) seems to be vying to produce the most bearish story on emerging markets," says Bartosz Pawlowski, global head of EM strategy at BNP Paribas. "We have actually moved Turkey from biggest underweight in our portfolio to a slight overweight (keeping other shorts like South Africa or Russia at the same time)." FREE AppDownload
Looking for financial advice? Here you go! Economist Sendhil Mullainathan tweeted out a photo of an index card that was made by professor Harold Pollack, which contains just about all of the financial advice you're ever going to need (via Justin Wolfers). @m_sendhil FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON (AP) — President Barack Obama is running out of reasons to say no to Keystone XL, the proposed oil pipeline that's long been looming over his environmental legacy. Five years after the pipeline's backers first asked the Obama administration for approval, the project remains in limbo, stuck in a complex regulatory process that has enabled Obama to put off what will inevitably be a politically explosive decision. But the release Friday of a long-awaited government report removes a major excuse for delay, ramping up pressure on the president to make a call. The State Department's report raised no significant environmental objections to the pipeline, marking a victory for proponents, who argue the project will create jobs and strengthen America's energy security. Environmentalists disagree and insist approval would fly in the face of Obama's vaunted promise to fight climate change, even as the report gives him political cover to approve it. They argue the report, which provides a detailed assessment of tar sands emissions, offers Obama more than enough justification to oppose the pipeline. Obama is not tipping his hand. But the White House pushed back on the notion that the pipeline is now headed for speedy approval. Only after various U.S. agencies and the public have a chance to weigh the report and other data will a decision be made, said White House spokesman Matt Lehrich. "The president has clearly stated that the project will be in the national interest only if it does not significantly exacerbate the problem of carbon pollution," Lehrich said, echoing a declaration Obama made in a speech laying out his climate change plan. A final decision isn't expected until this summer, at the earliest, meaning the verdict could potentially come in the run-up to November's midterm elections, in which energy issues are likely to be a factor in some key races. The decision might also coincide with the Obama administration's release of new emissions rules for existing power plants that are also politically contentious. Because Keystone has become a proxy for the broader battle over energy vs. environment, Obama's decision will have an outsized impact on his environmental legacy. The issue has taken on a life of its own, trailing Obama seemingly wherever he goes. Protesters, one who dresses as a polar bear, show up regularly outside the White House and at Obama events across the country to demonstrate against it. Both sides have run television ads urging Obama to take their side on the pipeline, which would carry oil from tar sands in western Canada 1,179 miles to a hub in Nebraska, where it would connect with existing pipelines to carry more than 800,000 barrels of crude oil a day to refineries on the Texas Gulf Coast. "Sometimes you don't get to choose the symbol of an issue — they get chosen for you, and there's no better example of that than Keystone," said Daniel J. Weiss, director of climate strategy at the Center for American Progress and a Keystone opponent. "His decision on this issue will symbolize his record on climate and energy for people on both sides of the debate." If Obama gives Keystone the green light, environmental groups that are already upset with him for promoting domestic oil and gas drilling are sure to pile on. Moreover, it's unlikely to win him any accolades from Republicans. Whit Ayres, a Republican pollster, said rather than give Obama credit for finally making the decision they wanted, Republicans will criticize him for taking so long. Ironically for Obama, who has been seeking out opportunities to act unilaterally in the face of congressional gridlock, this is one decision the president may wish weren't up to him. Republicans seized on Obama's vow to use his "pen and phone" to take executive action this year as they urged him Friday to sign the pipeline's permit. "Please pick up that pen you've been talking so much about and make this happen," said Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky. The White House has sought to dodge questions publicly about the pipeline by arguing the review process is housed at the State Department, which has jurisdiction because the pipeline would cross a U.S. border. But privately, administration officials concede that Obama will decide an issue of this magnitude. Obama doesn't just face domestic pressure on the issue — Canada has been angered at the long delays of the project it needs to export its growing oil sands production. Obama meets with Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper at a trilateral summit in Mexico in a few weeks. Obama blocked the Keystone XL pipeline in January 2012, saying he did not have enough time for a fair review before a looming deadline forced on him by congressional Republicans. That delayed the choice for him until after his re-election. Now that the review is complete, other government agencies have 90 days to comment. Then Secretary of State John Kerry makes a recommendation to Obama on whether the project is in the national interest, taking into account Obama's pledge that the effect on greenhouse gas emissions will be part of that equation. The State Department report Friday said Keystone is unlikely to significantly impact oil sands extraction or the demand for heavy crude oil at U.S. refineries. Keystone opponents called the report flawed and argued it ignored evidence. ___ Associated Press writer Matthew Daly contributed to this report. ___ Follow Nedra Pickler on Twitter at https://twitter.com/nedrapickler Follow Josh Lederman at https://twitter.com/joshledermanAP Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Daniel Goodman/Business InsiderHere are some excepts from two research reports ... first, from Goldman Sachs chief economist Jan Hatzius  Our preliminary forecast for the nonfarm payroll report is a bounceback to a 200,000 pace of increase. There are two key reasons why we expect the report to look strong ... Better weather (yes, really). Although the month of January as a whole was quite cold, the payroll survey week was actually somewhat warmer than normal ... Even excluding the weather impact, the December employment gain looks to be about 50,000 below the recent trend. In our view, this is implausibly weak relative to other job market measures ... This could result in a bounceback to an above-trend pace even outside the weather impact, although it is also possible that the December reading will be revised up. ... we see a drop in the unemployment rate from 6.7% to 6.6%, partly because the expiration of emergency unemployment benefits at yearend may have caused another drop in labor force participation and partly because we expect a good increase in household employment, which has likewise underperformed job market indicators such as claims. From Ethan Harris at Merrill Lynch:  We forecast nonfarm payrolls to increase 185,000, an improvement from the 74,000 gain in December, but still somewhat below the recent trend. The unemployment rate is likely to slip to 6.6% from 6.7%. Typically when poor weather conditions result in a downward bias to payroll growth, there will be a positive reversal the subsequent month when those “missing” payrolls reappear on the books. Although job growth was held back in December by the harsh weather, we do not think a strong snap-back will occur in January. ... On balance, the weather in January was worse than normal, which would depress activity. While conditions improved for the survey week (since the 12th falls on a Sunday, the pay period is the week of the 13th), the rest of the month was quite cold. In particular, the week prior experienced the "polar vortex." ... The benchmark revision to nonfarm payrolls will also be released along with this report. The preliminary revision was for an upward revision of 345,000, or 0.3% of payrolls. This will impact the data from April 2012 through March 2013. From CR: At Harris notes, the annual benchmark revision will be released with the January employment report, and the preliminary estimate is an upward revision of 345,000 jobs, however the revision would have been negative except for the reclassification of certain jobs (that weren't previously included in the payroll report).On the weather, it is uncertain. It was very cold in many parts of the country during January, but the weather during the survey week was decent for January.   So the weather impact might be minimal. I'll write an employment report preview later this week after more data for January is released. FREE AppDownload
The Guardian A thick crust of bird droppings is piled on the gilded balustrade of one of Britain's most expensive properties. Pigeon skeletons lie among shattered mirrors and water streams through broken cornicing. This is The Tower, a £30m palace in "Billionaires Row" in north London whose spectacular ruin has been kept secret until now. It is one of 10 mansions in the middle of The Bishops Avenue – the heart of London's spiralling property market – that have stood almost entirely vacant since they were bought a quarter of a century ago, it is believed on behalf of members of the Saudi Arabian royal family. Their Grecian columns are cracking into pieces and mosaic-tiled swimming pools are filled with rubble. Nature has taken over to the extent that owls have moved in. It is a desolate scene repeated up and down the supposedly prestigious avenue that Lloyds Bank has calculated is the second most expensive street in Britain. While more and more people struggle to get on to London's property ladder as house prices rise at 11.2% a year, the Guardian has established that 16 mansions on the most expensive stretch of The Bishops Avenue are sitting empty, many behind padlocked gates, with their windows shuttered with steel grilles and overgrown grounds patrolled by guard dogs. Across the street from the former Saudi properties stands another derelict mansion worth £18m with smashed windows and walls coated in anti-climb paint. Metal grilles block the windows of another believed to belong to a Middle Eastern owner through a Channel Islands company which has been "sold on behalf of receivers" for £20m. But that doesn't stop the prices going up. Dryades, a mansion until recently owned by a Pakistani politician, sold for £12m in 2007 and is believed to be worth about £30m today. Heath Lodge, the scene of the 1984 murder by silver bullet of fashion tycoon Aristos Constantinou, is worth £13m today after having been sold in the late 1970s for £400,000. The dereliction can be agonising for people struggling to keep a roof above their heads in one of the world's most expensive cities. One security guard working on the avenue said he had only recently been homeless and it was exasperating to see so many tens of thousands of square feet of property – enough to house dozens of people – falling apart. "How do you let something like this go to waste?" he said. "You wouldn't, would you?" Over the last half a century this curving road near Hampstead Heath has become a haven for the winners and losers of numerous geopolitical shocks. Royals flushed with oil wealth from Nigeria and Saudi Arabia were among the first to come. Iranians fled here after the fall of the shah. Now Chinese househunters are following Russians and Kazakhs who have spent millions securing an address estate agents tell them is as world famous as the Champs Elysées and Rodeo Drive. This week two mansions were on sale for £65m and £38m, promising endless Italian marble, leather-padded lifts and luxury panic rooms. Roaring Lamborghini sports cars and Bentley limousines negotiate the constant traffic of construction vehicles refurbishing mansions. The avenue is home to Princess Al Jawhara bint Ibrahim Al Ibrahim, widow of Saudi Arabia's late King Fahd, and Richard Desmond, owner of the Express newspapers. But its hidden reality is exposed most clearly in the wrecks of the 10 mansions sold last October for a combined £73m. Land Registry records show the portfolio was assembled between 1989 and 1993, around the time Saddam Hussein's sabre rattling in the Gulf threatened the House of Saud. The deal on the boltholes was brokered by Rafic Hariri, the future prime minister of Lebanon, who at that time was working as a Saudi envoy, sources familiar with the transaction say. Five identical mansions were snapped up for £1.5m each along with the palatial Tower – built on the site of the former home of the 1940s Hollywood star Gracie Fields – and three neighbouring mansions. But after Saddam was beaten back, the Saudis let dilapidation take hold. The waste is spectacular. In the grounds, stone fountains crumble and lawns have become bogs. Inside the Georgian mansion water drips through a huge crystal chandelier on to a thick carpet rotting under sections of collapsed ceiling. Moss grows through shattered bricks and mirrored tiles are scattered across a bathroom. An odour of fermentation pervades neighbouring Redcroft and the only signs of life are an old and jammed Arabic Olympia typewriter and a hotel-style sign warning: "Visitors may be asked to submit to a search of person or baggage by security staff." The swimming pool is filled with a foot of brackish water and has flowers growing through its tiles. Wooden slats bulge away from the sauna. Behind the rotting ranch-style shutters of Ilkley House, a tiled peacock remains intact in the pool house but dead plants droop from hanging baskets. A sheaf of invoices reveals a £7,314.54 order for kitchen equipment made in September 1992 including a Robot Juicerator, teak salad servers and a melon baller. But it is the wreck of The Towers, a grand mansion set in acres of hornbeams, oaks and limes, that is most dramatic, with its huge, high-ceiling halls occupied by pigeons and its walls turned bright green by algae as water pours through three storeys and plinks into a vast, empty basement swimming pool. Unopened wooden crates marked "bullet proof glass" reveal the security fears of the previous owners. The properties have now been bought for £73m by LJ Capital, an investment fund which intends a major redevelopment. It has appointed Harrison Varma, a local developer, to oversee the scheme, which is the subject of talks with the local authority to allow the construction of flats as well as mansions, because it believes smaller serviced apartments will be better occupied and help bring the avenue back to life. Today, very few people live on The Bishops Avenue full-time. A security guard patrolling the pavement outside one mansion confirmed it was owned by "someone from Brunei", but said they were not at home. Another in a designer uniform outside Royal Mansion, owned by a Kazakh-born property billionairess, declined to say if anyone was home, while a member of staff at Saudi-owned mansion simply warned the Guardian about the guard dogs. But Magdy Adib Ishak-Hannah, an Egyptian-born private healthcare mogul whose personal wealth is £45m, said he was in the minority of permanent residents. "It's not a neighbourly place where you can chat over the fence," he said. "To be honest I have never seen what my neighbours look like. Next door a Saudi princess spent £35m a new house and I've never seen her. There are about three houses that are lived in 24/7 and half of the properties are occupied three to six months a year. The other half, who knows if they come or not?" The multimillion-pound wrecks are evidence of a property culture in which the world's richest people see British property as investments. One Hyde Park, a block of apartments in Knightsbridge, is another example where more than half the flats are registered with the council as empty or second homes. Nevertheless, the talk on the avenue is about building £5m apartments instead of £50m mansions in an effort to draw people back. Anil Varma, a local property developer, has decided to rebuild one of the most valuable sites on the avenue as a collection of 20 apartments with a concierge, maid service, 25-metre pool, spa and cinema. He believes the local authority should relax conservation area rules to allow more apartments such as his Buxmead scheme. "If you build a big house and try and sell for £30m to £40m it won't sell," he said. "Locals won't buy and so you have to bring in overseas buyers." Andreas Panayiotou, a boxer turned property developer whose fortune is estimated at more than £400m, has been trying to sell Heath Hall next door to the site for £65m for well over a year. It came on to the market in August 2012 at £100m. He completely refitted the 15-bedroom Arts and Crafts-movement mansion, originally built for William Lyle of Tate &amp; Lyle to include hand-carved marble baths and an oak-clad snooker room. "It used to be the Arabs buying trophy assets but not moving in, but now you have a lot of new money coming in," Panayiotou said. "Over the last 20 years it was the elite that bought these properties and a lot didn't live in them but might come over two or three weeks a year. There was so much money that these houses were being left behind. In the last 10 years people are starting to live in the road." Firoz Kassam, the former owner of Oxford United Football Club, last year spent close to £30m on three properties which he is planning to turn into three mansions and five apartments. "Everyone wants to be bigger and better than next door so they pull down the buildings and start again," he said. "It has always been like that and it shows no sign of changing." Kassam said to leave houses derelict "is no good for anybody, but it is hard to see what you can do". Cross the road from the rotting Tower and Jersey House feels a million miles away. The electronic gates swing open on a rebuilt £38m, seven-bedroom mansion with silk carpets and limestone floors. The suited housekeeper turns on ambient music and reveals a six-metre-high hall with shimmering bauble chandelier. A fur is tossed over a chaise longue to create a Downton Abbey ambience. "Buyers have a celluloid image of Britain in their minds and when they come they want to live the dream," explains Trevor Abrahmsohn, the 59-year-old estate agent who has sold more homes on the avenue than anybody else. "The more things there are that give them instant gratification, the better." Everything from the leather-clad lift to the vast master bedroom with its three dressing rooms and three bathrooms is "reassuringly expensive" he says. The master bedroom is in fact one bedroom, three dressing rooms (two of which are fitted out in his and hers styles) and three bathrooms. The staff quarters is a self-contained flat that would delight any first time buyer. In the basement is a swimming pool, gym and spa, while there is a cinema on the first floor and there are two kitchens – one built to catering standard that could serve a small hotel and another more for show. Books are scattered around like heavy hints: The Richest of the Rich and The Villas of the Riviera. "Everything is extraordinary about it," said Abrahmsohn of The Bishops Avenue. "You can buy a home with multiple acres of land 15 minutes from the centre of London. It is a cross between a dacha and a town house." The trend for foreign ownership has snowballed to the point that more than half of the 55 properties on the most expensive stretch are now registered to offshore companies or foreign owners. But the prospect of the avenue's empty property being used to help solve the housing crisis remains distant. A Conservative councillor, Andrew Harper, whose ward covers the avenue, laughed when asked whether some of the derelict housing could become affordable homes. He said the land price would be prohibitive. "Very wealthy people own property there," he said. "Sometimes they live in them and sometimes they don't". Asked whether leaving homes vacant for decades was acceptable, he replied: "That's their prerogative. It is difficult to imagine what one would put in place to force things to be different to how they are."      This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
It is wildly difficult to beat the stock market in any given year. Most fund managers who try to beat the market fail. And most of the time, it's before fees are considered, which means the money investors take home is far less. Even Warren Buffett knows he can't beat the market forever. Still, you can't separate feelings of greed when it comes to investing. And as a result, your brain will tempt you into trying to beat the market. Indeed, "overconfidence" is one of the first things you learn in Behavioral Finance 101. It certainly doesn't help when you see investors and fund managers beating the market. That brings us to the most dangerous chart in the retail investment business. It comes from Goldman Sachs' Amanda Sneider in the firm's Mutual Fundamentals report, which was published last Tuesday. Sneider's report included an analysis of 219 large-cap core mutual funds with a combined $612 billion in assets under management. These do not include passively-managed S&amp;P 500 index funds. "42% of funds outperformed the S&amp;P 500 in 2013, above the ten- year average of 36%," wrote Sneider. "The median fund underperformed the S&amp;P 500 by 62 bp." Anyone with a basic understanding of statistics can read this and conclude that you're just better off going with the passively-managed index fund, which has a long history of beating more than half of the investors in the market. This is what Jack Bogle's entire life's work is all about. Unfortunately, retail investors will look at backward-looking charts like the one below and obsess over the blue bars to the left of the dotted line. Similarly themed charts are found in fund marketing materials that boast about years of outperformance. "The biggest problem appears to be that – despite all the disclaimers – retail flows assume that past performance is a good guide to future outcomes," said market guru Gerard Minack. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
