Thomson ReutersA logo of Banamex is seen in Mexico CityNEW YORK (Reuters) - The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating Citigroup &lt;C.N&gt; for accounting fraud after it disclosed bogus loans in its Mexican Banamex unit, a source familiar with the investigation said. The securities regulator is also examining whether Citigroup violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the source said. An employee at Banamex has been questioned by Mexican police after being suspected by the bank of involvement in the loan scheme, another source familiar with the police investigation said. It was unclear whether more than one person was involved, that source said. Citigroup said on Friday it had found $400 million in bad Banamex loans and was reducing its full year profit by $235 million to $13.67 billion, after the bank had first reported its 2013 earnings more than one month ago. The source familiar with the SEC investigation said the probe was in its very early stages and it was too soon to determine whether the regulator will make a referral on the case to criminal authorities at the U.S. Department of Justice. The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation on Friday also said it was monitoring the situation for possible criminal activity. The bad loans were made to Mexican oil services company Oceanographic &lt;OCNGR.UL&gt;, whose assets Mexican law enforcement officials have now seized. The oil services company was a contractor for Mexican state-owned oil company Pemex &lt;PEMX.UL&gt;. Citigroup Chief Executive Officer Michael Corbat called the incident a "despicable crime" and said the bank believes it was an isolated episode. Corbat said in a statement on Friday that Banamex is exploring legal options. Criminal actions "may allow us to recover damages," he added. (Reporting by Emily Flitter and David Henry; Writing by Jeanine Prezioso; Editing by Sophie Hares) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/China DailyHSBC China PMI fell to 48.5 in February, in line with expectations. This compares to a reading of 49.5 the previous month.  A reading below 50 indicates contraction. This month saw the first contraction in both new orders and output since July 2013. Meanwhile, the rate of job cuts was the fastest since March 2009. "The final reading of the HSBC China Manufacturing PMI confirmed the weakness of manufacturing growth," HSBC China economist Hongbin Qu said in a press release. "Signs become clear that the risks to GDP growth are tilting to the downside. This calls for policy fine-tuning measures to stabilize market expectations and steady the pace of growth in the coming quarters." Here's a look at the ugly trajectory of HSBC China PMI: Markit Economics/HSBC We already saw official PMI fall to an eight-month low of 50.2. Economists have said that markets should interpret the PMI data with some caution because of the impact of the Lunar New Year holiday. But Societe Generale's Wei Yao pointed out that "0.8 point decline in January and February combined was still sharper than the average decline of 0.5 point during the same period historically." What's more the decline was broad-based with all the sub-indices slowing. FREE AppDownload
The Japanese Nikkei 225 is down 2.5% early in Monday trading, and U.S. futures are lower as well as a bout of risk aversion sweeps across the globe. S&amp;P 500 futures are down 1.1% right out of the gate  as geopolitical worries loom over global markets. Gold and U.S. Treasury futures are firmer, and the U.S. dollar is weakening against the Japanese yen, but is strengthening against the euro. Oil futures are up 1.6%, trading around $104.20 a barrel as investors eye the latest developments in the Ukraine-Russia conflict. "I think from a market perspective, the most interesting thing to watch out for is the oil price," says Bartosz Pawlowski, global head of emerging markets strategy at BNP Paribas. "In theory it should jump, but then there hasn't been much nervousness in recent days." The charts below show the moves across various markets. Across the top from left to right are S&amp;P 500 futures, the U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate, and the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, 10-year U.S. Treasury note futures, and NYMEX crude oil futures. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
Joe Weisenthal, Business InsiderThe following guest column comes courtesy of Eurasia Group President and Founder Ian Bremmer. As Russia conducts direct military intervention in Ukraine, the US and Europe condemn it, and the Ukrainian army goes on high alert, we're witnessing the most seismic geopolitical events since 9/11. A big part of the problem is that Russia is a declining power, and it’s in the West's best interest to let that slowly play out over time. But the recent response on Ukraine pushed too hard, prompting President Vladimir Putin to retaliate with a decisive response. To say the US-Russia relationship is presently broken is an understatement. Going forward, there are three central questions that should prove most interesting. First, what will the West’s direct response be? We won’t see much, although there will certainly be some very significant finger-pointing. President Obama will cancel his trip to Sochi for the upcoming G-8 summit, and it's possible that enough of the other leaders will join him that the meeting will need to be scratched. It's conceivable the G-7 nations would vote to remove Russia from the club. U.S Secretary of State John Kerry warned: “There’s a unified view by all of the foreign ministers I talked with yesterday — all of the G-8 and more — they’re simply going to isolate Russia; that they’re not going to engage with Russia in a normal business-as-usual manner.” It's possible we see an emergency United Nations Security Council session to denounce the intervention — which the Russians would no doubt veto — but it would be very interesting to see if the Chinese join them, and to see who abstains in voting. NATO will have to fashion some response, possibly by sending ships into the Black Sea. But given the depth of economic ties, it is very hard to see significant European powers actually breaking relations with Russia at this point. In fact, it’s hard to envision serious sanctions coming together, given the coordination it would take between the US and the various European powers (Germany in particular). In short, shots won't be fired, but markets will get fired up. Second, what international complications can Russia stir up? Events in Ukraine will significantly complicate all areas of US-Russia ties. Russia doesn't want an Iranian nuclear weapon, but they'll be somewhat less cooperative with the Americans and Europeans around Iranian negotiations ... possibly making them more likely to offer a "third way" down the road that undermines the American deal. On Syria, an intransigent Russia will become very intransigent, making it more difficult to implement the chemical weapons agreement; Moscow will provide greater direct financial and military support for Bashar Assad's regime. And if Russia were to invade Eastern Ukraine, a host of other issues would surface, including energy concerns surrounding major pipelines and the maintained flow of natural gas. Lastly, will events in Ukraine result in a broader geopolitical shift? Russia will see its key opportunity as closing ranks more tightly with China. While we may see symbolic coordination from Beijing, particularly if there's a Security Council vote (where the Chinese are reasonably likely to vote with the Russians), the Chinese are trying hard to maintain a balanced relationship with the United States ... and accordingly won't directly support Russian actions that could undermine that relationship. Leaving aside China, Russia's ability to get other third party states on board with their Ukrainian engagement is largely limited to the "near abroad" – Armenia, Belarus, and Tajikistan – which is not a group the West is particularly concerned with. But it is, more broadly, a significant hit to American foreign policy credibility. Coming only days after Secretary of State John Kerry took strong exception to "asinine, "isolationist" views in Congress that were framed as if the United States is a "poor country," a direct admonition from the United States and its key allies was willfully and immediately ignored by the Russian president. That will send a message of weakness and brings concerns about American commitment to allies around the world. All of this reinforces the prevailing geopolitical dynamic: we are in a world with a distinct and dangerous lack of global, coordinated leadership. FREE AppDownload
MarkitSouth Korea's manufacturing PMI fell to 49.8 in February from 50.9 in January. Any reading below 50 signals contraction, and it's the first time this reading went sub-50 since September. Here are the key points via Markit: “Korea's weaker manufacturing conditions in February suggest that the recovery will be gradual," said HSBC's Ronald Man. "The decline in new orders and output will make it difficult for the economy to sustain strong sequential growth. The silver lining is that stronger orders from China were recorded, which is essential for Korea to stay on track for an export-led recovery. We remain cautious on the growth outlook and expect the economy to grow 3.2% in 2014.” FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
At the same time, Russia's move on Crimea and the US and European response may eclipse, at least partially, the economic focus of investors.  Lithuania and Latvia have invoked Article 4, which requires consultation over Russia's actions when a member feels its security or independence is threatened.  It is only the fourth such action in NATO history. 1.  Ukraine (Moderate risk):  Neither the US nor Europe are inclined to try to use military force to push Russia out of Crimea.  There may be a short-lived wobble to the detriment of risk assets and beneficial for the dollar, yen and Swiss franc.  Yet, the impact of geopolitics tends to be transitory.  The early July G8 Summit in Sochi may be in jeopardy, but the G7/G8 had already been reduced to a caucus within the G20 and Russia's special role had already been diluted.  Dis-inviting Russia from the G8 on grounds of not going to the UN for authority is laughable, given what happened in Iraq, but it does not mean it can't happen.   After Ukraine, Germany may have the most to lose from Russian actions.  Its energy program and efforts to de-nuclearize seems to force greater reliance on Russian energy.  The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan spurred an increase in military spending (which in the US began under Carter, not Reagan as often suggested).  Many countries in the West are reducing military spending presently.   There is some risk that China will use the West's distraction to press is case in the South or East China Sea.  There may also be knock-on effect in the EU parliamentary election in May, where the anti-EU parties seemed to have moved into ascendancy. 2.  China (Low risk):  China reported its official manufacturing PMI eased to 50.2 from 50.5 in January. The Bloomberg consensus was for 50.1.  Output and orders slipped, while exports remained below the 50 boom/bust level for the third consecutive month.  The PMI for large businesses eased to 50.7 from 51.4, while the reading for small businesses is contracting, as the HSBC flash PMI showed. The final manufacturing read and its service PMI, along with the official one, will be released first thing Monday in Beijing.   In part, what is happening is a decline in investment, especially in the credit sensitive sectors, like infrastructure and real estate where investment has been excessive.    We expect the RMB to stabilize in the week ahead, though last week's decline did not prevent the Shanghai Composite from  finishing the week with a three-day rally or the MSCI Emerging Market equity index from ending February at its highest level since January 23. The depreciation of the RMB is too small, given the relatively low-value added being done by Chinese workers, too boost exports and therefore the direct impact on trade is likely minimal at best.   The National People's Congress begins at midweek and a solidification of the reform agenda should expected. 3.  The Reserve Bank of Australia (Low risk): The RBA meets and the result will be announced Tuesday morning in Sydney.  At its last meeting, it indicated that a period of rate stability is best and although the labor market continues to deteriorate and activity outside mining is not picking up sufficiently quickly, it is too soon to expect much of a change in the RBA's stance.  The market may decide to ease for it, by taking the currency lower.  Technically, the February rally looks over and a new push lower appears to have begun.   Its failure to resurface above $0.9000 signals initial downside risk back into the $0.8840-80 range. 4.  Bank of Canada (Low risk):  The Bank of Canada meets Wednesday March 5.  There is little to no chance of a rate cut and the BoC has already shifted its rhetoric to a more dovish/neutral tone since Carney went to the Bank of England.  As in the US, the extent of the weather-induced economic disruption is not immediately clear and reasonable people can and do disagree.  The February IVEY (Thursday) and jobs data (Friday), the latter to overshadow the January trade figures due out at the same time, may be more important for the Canadian dollar direction. 5.  Bank of England (Low risk):  Under Carney, the emphasis at the BOE is on using forward guidance to push against market fears of a rate hike sooner than the first part of next year.  There is practically no chance of a change in rate.  And because the BOE does not say anything when it does not do anything, there is no statement-risk a there is with the other central banks.  The three PMIs (construction, manufacturing and service) are expected to show that UK economic activity has leveled off a bit at a reasonably robust pace. 6.   European Central Bank (High risk):  Of the central bank meetings this week, the ECB's is the only live one in the sense of a realistic possibility of a change.   The failure to act in a substantive way could see the euro appreciate.  Many, if not most, have focused on what we would regard as a symbolic 10-15 bp cut in the main repo rate.  We suspect the euro could rally on this, as it is not the significant rate.  It would unlikely even impact forward pricing.  With the PMI likely showing continued expansion for the region and the preliminary CPI reading unchanged, officials will not feel compelled to take drastic measures such as adopting a negative deposit rate or launching a sovereign bond purchase program. There has been some speculation that to boost the excess liquidity to keep EONIA (the key rate) stable and low, the ECB could formally stop sterilizing the SMP purchases.  We suspect this would be a very controversial decision.  Recall two German ECB member, Weber and Stark resigned over the program.  In the absence of sterilization, this would leave the SMP too close to QE, given the treaty prohibitions.  We have advocated cutting the lending rate, which is the top of the official rate corridor and now sits at 75 bp.  It is true the cap on EONIA,  The ECB is also expected to use the new staff forecasts, that will project out to 2016 for the first time, to point to its belief that the low inflation may persist but the risk of outright deflation for the monetary union is slim.  The euro could rally on this because it would strengthen the view that there is no appetite for those drastic measures. 7.  US data (High risk): The US jobs data, with the February assessment due on Friday March 7, tends to be among the most important economic reports of the monthly cycle.  Yet, almost regardless of the report, whose thunder is partly stolen by the ADP estimate a couple days earlier, or the week's other data, which includes auto sales, purchasing managers surveys, the Fed's measured tapering pace is unlikely to be disrupted.   The Fed's tapering has not pushed up US 10-year yields this year, which have fallen by 38 bp through the end of February.  Nor has it lent the dollar support, which has fallen against all the major currencies and many emerging market currencies (including Indonesian rupiah, Polish zloty, Hungarian forint, South African rand, Mexican peso, Brazilian real and Turkish lira).   Most of the US economic data in recent weeks have been reported below expectations.  It means that the market has not fully grasped the magnitude of the slowdown being experienced here in Q1.  Few really claim that it is only due to the weather, which has become a bit of a straw man in the blogosphere.  We highlight three other forces at work:  a) the inventory cycle, b) the end of the tax break for capex and c) the loss of income for 1.7 mln Americans who had been collecting emergency jobless benefits.  At the end of last week, there were a few secondary economic reports, notably new home sales, durable goods orders and Chicago PMI, were stronger than expected.  With more important economic data out this week, it will be important to monitor this pattern, and if, better than expected data lends the dollar support.  We suspect it may with a lag.   For the record, the Bloomberg consensus is for a 150k rise in February nonfarm payrolls.  This is in line with the 3-month average of 154k, but below the 6-month average (177.5k), which is nearly identical with the 2-year average (179.6k).   Although the consensus does not expect a decline in the 6.6% unemployment rate, we see the risk to the downside in response to the loss of the emergency jobless benefits.  This is turn would reinforce expectations for a modification/evolution in the FOMC forward guidance at its March 18-19 meeting.  Judging from the Fed funds and Eurodollar futures strips, the market is not pricing in the first rate hike until the second half of 2015.   Obama is expected to present the FY15 budget proposals on March 4.  This tends not to be a market mover.  Moreover, in recent years, due to the political paralysis, the Federal government has operated on the basis of continuing resolutions.  Yet the budget proposal will help shape the coming debate.  It takes place on the heels of  news that FY13 budget deficit was only $680 bln from $1.1 trillion the previous year.  The budget deficit fell to 4.1% of GDP from 6.8%.  It is projected to continue trending lower over the next few years.  Obama is expected to avoid further cuts in spending, drop efforts to use chain-weighted CPI measures to slow Social Security payouts and promote public investment.  Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
Over 1,000 people from around Wall Street sent their top reads to Stifel Nicolaus's Dave Lutz for his annual Spring Break reading list. Here are the 13 books most frequently mentioned by those around the Street, from finance to fiction. The synopses are from Lutz's list. Amazon1. The Boys in the Boat by Daniel James Brown Nine Americans and Their Epic Quest for Gold at the 1936 Olympics 2. Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption by Laura Hillenbrand As a teenager, he had channeled his defiance into running, discovering a prodigious talent that had carried him to the Berlin Olympics and within sight of the four-minute mile.  But when war had come, the athlete had become an airman, embarking on a journey that led to his doomed flight, a tiny raft, and a drift into the unknown. 3. David and Goliath by Malcolm Gladwell In David and Goliath, Malcolm Gladwell challenges how we think about obstacles and disadvantages, offering a new interpretation of what it means to be discriminated against, or cope with a disability, or lose a parent, or attend a mediocre school, or suffer from any number of other apparent setbacks 4. The Frackers by Gregory Zuckerman The Outrageous Inside Story of the New Billionaire Wildcatters - Everyone knew it was crazy to try to extract oil and natural gas buried in shale rock deep below the ground. Everyone, that is, except a few reckless wildcatters - who risked their careers to prove the world wrong Amazon 5. Lone Survivor: The Eyewitness Account of Operation Redwing and the Lost Heroes of SEAL Team 10 by Marcus Luttrell Four US Navy SEALS departed one clear night in early July 2005 for the mountainous Afghanistan-Pakistan border for a reconnaissance mission. Their task was to document the activity of an al Qaeda leader rumored to be very close to Bin Laden with a small army in a Taliban stronghold. Five days later, only one of those Navy SEALS made it out alive 6. The Son by Philipp Meyer An epic of the American West and a multigenerational saga of power, blood, land, and oil that follows the rise of one unforgettable Texas family, from the Comanche raids of the 1800s to the to the oil booms of the 20th century. 7. Bad Monkey by Carl Hiaasen Here is Hiaasen doing what he does better than anyone else: spinning a tale at once fiercely pointed and wickedly funny in which the greedy, the corrupt, and the degraders of what’s left of pristine Florida—now, of the Bahamas as well—get their comeuppance in mordantly ingenious, diabolically entertaining fashion. 8. Reminiscences of a Stock Operator by Edwin Lefevre First published in 1923, Reminiscences of a Stock Operator is the most widely read, highly recommended investment book ever. Generations of readers have found that it has more to teach them about markets and people than years of experience. This is a timeless tale that will enrich your life—and your portfolio. Amazon9. Team of Rivals by Doris Kearns Goodwin This brilliant multiple biography is centered on Lincoln's mastery of men and how it shaped the most significant presidency in the nation's history. 10. Thinking, Fast and Slow by Daniel Kahneman Kahneman takes us on a groundbreaking tour of the mind and explains the two systems that drive the way we think. System 1 is fast, intuitive, and emotional; System 2 is slower, more deliberative, and more logical. Kahneman exposes the extraordinary capabilities—and also the faults and biases—of fast thinking, and reveals the pervasive influence of intuitive impressions on our thoughts and behavior. 11. The Buy Side: A Wall Street Trader's Tale of Spectacular Excess by Turney Duff Portrays an after-hours Wall Street culture where drugs and sex are rampant and billions in trading commissions flow to those who dangle the most enticements 12. The Second Machine Age: Work, Progress, and Prosperity in a Time of Brilliant Technologies by Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee The best strategies for survival and offer a new path to prosperity. These include revamping education so that it prepares people for the next economy instead of the last one, designing new collaborations that pair brute processing power with human ingenuity, and embracing policies that make sense in a radically transformed landscape. Amazon13. The Circle by Dave Eggers When Mae Holland is hired to work for the Circle, the world’s most powerful internet company, she feels she’s been given the opportunity of a lifetime. The captivating story of one woman’s ambition and idealism soon becomes a heart-racing novel of suspense, raising questions about memory, history, privacy, democracy, and the limits of human knowledge. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsChicken KievIt's jobs week in America. At this point, economists are wondering how badly the labor market was affected by the unusually harsh winter. Meanwhile, the stock market is at an all-time high. And the investment community is still digesting Warren Buffett's hot-off-the-press annual letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders. Overseas, tensions are flaring up in Ukraine. And on top of all of this, every major economy will be publishing their manufacturing purchasing managers' index reports, which will give us an up-to-date read on the health of the global economy. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Warren Buffett's 2013 annual letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders was published this Saturday. With the stock market at all-time highs, some wisdom from the oracle of Omaha seems timely. From Buffett: "The main danger is that the timid or beginning investor will enter the market at a time of extreme exuberance and then become disillusioned when paper losses occur. (Remember the late Barton Biggs’ observation: “A bull market is like sex. It feels best just before it ends.”) The antidote to that kind of mistiming is for an investor to accumulate shares over a long period and never to sell when the news is bad and stocks are well off their highs. Following those rules, the “know-nothing” investor who both diversifies and keeps his costs minimal is virtually certain to get satisfactory results. Indeed, the unsophisticated investor who is realistic about his shortcomings is likely to obtain better long- term results than the knowledgeable professional who is blind to even a single weakness." FREE AppDownload
The U.S. unemployment rate has fallen sharply since the darkest days of the great recession. Much of this decline is due to the drop in the labor force participation rate (LFPR). Some people have attributed the change to discouraged workers. Others have pointed to young people going back to school. Many have recognized that many baby boomers are retiring. Earlier this week, Business Insider's Matthew Boesler brought light to some underappreciated stats from the Census that actually quantify this.  "The monthly Current Population Survey conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau and the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (from which labor force participation data are derived) actually asks those leaving the labor force why they are doing so." And more and more people are talking about it. The numbers broke down the 12.6 million people who left the workforce since 2007 into five broad categories. According to the respondents, 5.5 million retired, 2.9 million went on disability, 2.5 million went to school, and just 1.4 million left because they were discouraged. Here's Deutsche Bank's pie chart. Deustche Bank FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David Gray Australia's AIG-performance of manufacturing index climbed to 48.6 in February, from 46.7 the previous month. But the below-50 reading shows Australian manufacturing is still contracting. The employment sub-index also fell to 47.4, from 48.3. What's more, the crucial exports sub-index collapsed to 25.8, from 34.1. It's possible that China's Lunar Year holiday could have had an impact on the exports sub-index. China is Australia's largest export market. But one positive detail from the report was the improvement in new orders, which climbed to 50, from 48.8 in January. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
With military tensions flaring on the border between Ukraine and Russia, investors are curious about what this all means for markets. News out of the region over the weekend has not been encouraging, and it's certainly not likely to be taken positively at the open on Monday by Russian stocks, bonds, and the ruble. However, investors have largely already positioned for downside in Russia, for reasons unrelated to the latest headlines out of Ukraine. Indeed, according to Bartosz Pawlowski, global head of emerging markets strategy at BNP Paribas, shorting the ruble has become one of the most popular trades since late January, when market participants realized seasonality effects — normally supportive of the ruble early in the year — were unlikely to give it much support in 2014. "The ruble has been selling off for months now, regardless of the situation in Ukraine," says Pawlowski. "Granted, the events there have accelerated the process, but nothing more." Now, the Ukraine conflict has pushed the ruble further into territory that the Central Bank of Russia deems impactful on inflation, which it is trying to reduce. "Below-potential economic growth, lagged effects of slower money supply growth in 2012-13 and smaller tariff hikes are the factors pushing inflation downwards," says Eldar Vakhitov, an economist at Barclays. "However, the intensifying ruble depreciation pressures may offset these trends: the CBR estimates the inflation pass-through effect at about 0.15 percentage points over one to two quarters. Given this, reaching the year-end 5% inflation target will be a serious challenge for the CBR." Russia's year-over-year consumer price inflation rate currently stands at 6.1%, and given upward pressures from a falling ruble, BNP's Pawlowski believes the central bank will choose to act. "Unlike in recent months, the likely weakening of the ruble in the coming days will be met with a more forceful reaction from the Central Bank of Russia — I am expecting bigger interventions and possibly market rates spiking due to liquidity drainage," he says. Should Russia move further down the path of military intervention, markets will likely be in for sustained turmoil. However, many see this as a limited possibility, as Russia cannot really afford a war at the moment given the state of its economy, and blowback in the form of international economic sanctions could be extremely painful for the country. "Direct costs of war to Russia could reach at least 3% of GDP, which consists of nearly half (or about $30 billion) of gas exports from Russia to Europe, which is carried out through Ukraine and which would most likely be disrupted in case of a war," says Vladimir Osakovskiy, an economist at BofA Merrill Lynch. "On top of that, Ukraine itself is also a market for another $30 billion of Russian exports to the country. Apart from economic, we would also not rule out major political costs from military action, as most of foreign Russian partners will most likely proceed with all forms of diplomatic and political pressure in response to the outright intervention." However, Osakovskiy also warns that the "tense concentration of armed forces from both sides can be easily destabilized by provocations from either side," highlighting in particular "the prevalence of loosely controlled paramilitary forces on both sides of the conflict, which potential trigger such provocations." How might these events spill over into developed markets, like those in Europe? "Monday should bring a lower Bund yield and EUR/USD at least to discount the ordinary risk scenario of another [gas] supply interruption," say John Normand and Fabio Bassi, strategists at JPMorgan. "But unless that interruption is sustained for many weeks, Ukraine does not look like a trend driver of govies, swap spreads or the currency. If the extraordinary event (military conflict) occurs, however, minimum targets should be about 10 basis points on the Bund, 3-5 basis points on 10-year swap spreads, and 3-5 cents on EUR/USD, so comparable to a moderate burst of market volatility." If war were to arise, developed markets would certainly be in for some volatility, but the pain would likely be felt most acutely in Eastern European markets. In a note to clients, BofA Merrill Lynch strategist Arko Sen walks through what that might look like: In the tail scenario of the situation escalating further toward an outright conflict, we would expect contagion to EEMEA debt, FX and even broader markets to be fairly sharp. The impact, we think, will be largest on the following assets, albeit for varying reasons: Russia Eurobonds, CDS, and OFZs — which have lagged the weakness in the ruble significantly so far. The ruble, however, is already weak and could find more CBR support as distress mounts beyond economics ... Poland's geographical and political proximity, and Hungary's proximity as well as exposure via OTP in Ukraine, would weigh on them along with Poland's liquid status and relatively heavy positioning and Hungary's heavy local issuance needs this year.  To the extent that the situation pushes up energy prices it could if this persists mount to a significant terms-of-trade shock for the likes of Turkey and South Africa in particular, placed as they still are just at the start of a much needed current account rebalancing. For now, we maintain our positive bias on South Africa external debt, but would look to turn more neutral if necessary. Early last week, we also closed our long South African rand position tactically.  Finally the relatively less liquid markets, like Romania local debt/FX and external debt in Georgia or Belarus, are likely to initially hold in, but risk sudden weakness if matters escalate. In any case, it's likely to be a long week for investors in the region. FREE AppDownload
NASA NASA just posted the above image of the storm that's barreling its way toward the East Coast. Here's the full description from NASA: Satellite Sees Major Winter Storm Ready to Wallop Mid-Atlantic A major winter storm is poised to wallop the Mid-Atlantic and bring large amounts of snow to cities including Baltimore, Md., Washington, D.C. area on March 2 and 3, according to NOAA's National Weather Service. NOAA's GOES-East satellite captured this image of the clouds associated with the winter storm as it continued moving east toward those cities. On March 2, the National Weather Prediction Center in College Park, Md. noted that there is a slight risk for severe thunderstorms over parts of the western Gulf Coast and the Lower Mississippi Valley as a result of the southern portion of the system. The update at 7 a.m. EST noted that freezing rain/sleet is possible over parts of the lower Mississippi Valley and parts of the central Appalachians, while eastern Texas and the lower Mississippi Valley into the Ohio Valley are expected to experience heavy rain. The NWS Short Range Forecast Discussion stated "A strong storm over the Southern Plains/Lower Mississippi Valley will advance northeastward along a quasi-stationary front to off the Southern Mid-Atlantic Coast by Monday evening. Moisture from the Gulf of Mexico will overrun and pool along the associated front producing an area of snow extending from the Central Plains into the Northeast." The clouds are associated with a cold from that stretches from eastern Maine through Maryland and west into the Tennessee Valley. The low pressure center associated with the front was located over Arkansas. At NASA/NOAA's GOES Project at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md. the cloud data from NOAA's GOES-East satellite were overlaid on a true-color image of land and ocean created by data from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer or MODIS instrument that flies aboard NASA's Aqua and Terra satellites. Together, those data created the entire picture of the position of this major winter storm.  GOES satellites provide the kind of continuous monitoring necessary for intensive data analysis. Geostationary describes an orbit in which a satellite is always in the same position with respect to the rotating Earth. This allows GOES to hover continuously over one position on Earth's surface, appearing stationary. As a result, GOES provide a constant vigil for the atmospheric "triggers" for severe weather conditions such as tornadoes, flash floods, hail storms and hurricanes. For updated information about the storm system, visit NOAA's NWS website:www.weather.gov For more information about GOES satellites, visit: www.goes.noaa.gov/ or goes.gsfc.nasa.gov/ Rob Gutro NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Md. FREE AppDownload
PIMCO SEE UPDATE AT THE BOTTOM The above tweet from bond house PIMCO couldn't be more wrong in terms of how Chinese purchases of foreign assets relate to the value of the Chinese yuan. Here's how it actually works in practice: If China wants to weaken its currency — which it might want to do in order to make its exports more competitive — then it would print more yuan. These yuan could be used to buy dollars, which could then be used to buy U.S. Treasuries at auction. So buying Treasuries goes hand-in-hand with keeping a weak currency. Conversely, if China wants to strengthen its currency — which it's been doing to some extent for nearly a decade — then it could print fewer yuan, and theoretically purchase fewer Treasuries. Either way, the basic gist is that accumulating foreign reserves is a way for China to weaken its currency. Selling foreign assets strengthens the currency, the exact opposite of what the above tweet says. This is basic stuff, and the only question is whether whoever did that tweet mis-quoted Bill Gross, or whether Bill Gross actually said that (hopefully the former). This random tweet coming on a Sunday afternoon won't really matter much, but coming after the ouster of the economist El-Erian, leaving only Bill "Secretariat" Gross does not inspire confidence. UPDATE: After getting called out on the above tweet, PIMCO has deleted it. But then a few minutes later, PIMCO tweeted almost the exact same thing. PIMCO Again, if China wants to weaken its yuan, it just needs to print more of them. Selling Treasury assets wouldn't be part of the playbook at all. Oy. UPDATE: And now PIMCO has deleted the second tweet. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary Cameron For the most part, the "left" has been on the correct side of all the big economic policy debates since the economic crisis hit. Inflation has not been an issue at all, meriting exceptionally aggressive Fed policy. The public debt has also not been an issue at all, and attempts to cut spending have been completely counterproductive and damaging to the short and long-term health of the economy. Liberals were on the correct side of these debates. Conservatives were, by and large, not. You can get into debates about other issues (taxation, health care policy, trade, etc.) but the two issues above — inflation and debt — were the real biggies. But times change, and a gap is starting to grow between the liberal view of things, and how economists are seeing things. This is most evident in the view of the labor market. The liberal view is that there's tons of room for the Fed to be more aggressive in the pursuit of full employment. Meanwhile, economists are starting to come to the conclusion that the job market is not far from being "tight." More specifically, the view among more and more economists is that the headline unemployment rate (which is currently at 6.6%) is a fairly accurate gauge of the job market, and that various measures of long-term unemployment (and labor force participation) tell us very little. The New York Fed recently published a study, for example, that showed that short-term, not long-term unemployment, is the best thing to look at if you want to predict wage growth. In other words, if you want to know if the job market is tight enough to induce a rise in worker wages, the best input is short-term unemployment. The large numbers of long-term unemployment don't seem to have a big depressant effect on wages. Evan Soltas posted this chart yesterday, showing the relationship between the headline unemployment rate (also known as U-3) and the rate at which workers quit their jobs. Workers quitting their jobs at a higher rate is a good sign, since it's an expression of confidence. When the economy is bad, workers don't quit their jobs. What the chart shows is that the relationship between unemployment rate and quit-rates has remained steady, suggesting that it's the headline unemployment rate (not long-term unemployment) that best captures the state of the workforce. Evan Soltas Up until recently, the left was very much in step with where the mainstream of economics was (more easing, wherever you can get it). But daylight between the two is emerging. Economists are increasingly talking about a tightish job market. Ryan Cooper recently wrote at The Plum Line: As the unemployment rate continues to fall, Fed Chair Janet Yellen is going to face increasing pressure to tighten money before inflation starts to creep up. This would be a tremendous mistake, and the left must mobilize against it. The view from the left is basically: Even if the labor market is getting tight (which they deny), the Fed should press hard on the gas pedal, so that employers start to employ the long-term unemployed. And that might be the proper path, and if there's anyone who has the stomach to engage in the strategy, it's probably Janet Yellen. Meanwhile, the view of more and more people in the economics-sphere is that the job market is getting tight, and there's little more the Fed can do. FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Vasily FedosenkoMilitary personnel, believed to be Russian servicemen, stand guard outside the territory of a Ukrainian military unit, with Ukrainian and Crimean flags seen in the background, in the village of Perevalnoye outside Simferopol March 2, 2014. Over the last few days, Russia has invaded the Ukrainian peninsula of Crimea by taking over its airspace and airports, its highways, its ports, its television stations, and its regional government. On Sunday, hundreds of armed men in trucks and armored vehicles surrounded a Ukrainian military base in Crimea, blocking its soldiers from leaving. Russian troops are reportedly urging the Ukrainians to give up arms and support the peninsula's pro-Moscow regional authorities. The new head of Ukraine's navy has sworn allegiance to the Crimea region. Ukraine has withdrawn its coast guard vessels from two ports in Crimea and moved them to other Black Sea bases, which signals that Russian forces are "completing their seizure of the isolated Black Sea  peninsula." Ukraine says it will ask for Western help if Russia keeps building up forces in the Ukrainian territory, but there's not a whole lot the West can do. And Ukraine does not have full-member status in NATO, so the U.S. and Europe have no obligation to come to its defense.   REUTERSFor all intents and purposes, Crimea belongs to Russian President Vladimir Putin. Now it's a matter of what happens next. Michael Weiss explains in The Daily Beast (emphasis ours): What remains to be seen is whether or not a formal annexation of Crimea will take place or whether the peninsula will be run as another “semi-autonomous” satellite of Moscow, or simply serve as a waiting room for what Putin hopes will happen next: the fall of the Euromaidan government in Kiev. Ukraine is broke and increasingly desperate for aid as a government default becomes a possibility. Russia has a lot of economic leverage in Ukraine, partly because the Kremlin provides 58% of the gas consumed in the country of 46 million. Russia has not recognized the new pro-EU government in Kiev, and Putin wants it to fail. The question is what he does about it. On Friday, ousted President Viktor Yanukovych spoke from the southern Russian port city of Rostov-on-Don, where he is under Kremlin protection.  "Russia needs to use all of the leverage it has to prevent, the terror, that is unfolding in Ukraine," he said, adding that he considers himself president and the new government illegitimate. Wikimedia CommonsThis map, which shows the common native languages in urban and rural councils as of 2001, illustrates Crimea's closeness to Russia. Blue is Ukrainian and red is Russian.Mart Helme, the former Estonian ambassador to Russia, took it one step further in a statement titled: "Moscow Understands Only Force and Willingness to Sacrifice Human Lives." Here's part of Helme's statement (via former NSA analyst John Schindler): "Was Hitler done w Anschluss? No. Neither will Russia be satisfied just w Ukraine. After UKR, RU can only have 1 target - Baltic states." "RU has occupied Crimea. Western countries, incl Estonia, r confused &amp; able 2 utter only outdated &amp; increasingly embarrassing platitudes." "Russia is fighting ruthlessly &amp; brutally &amp; proving to all that the post-Cold War world has been replaced by the post-post-CW world..." "...in which Moscow no longer considers the current international order, law, and organizations competent to solve problems." FREE AppDownload
AP Images The latest Berkshire Hathaway annual shareholder letter came out yesterday, and in it, Warren Buffett gives us a status update on two portfolio managers who came to work for the company in recent years. In a year in which most equity managers found it impossible to outperform the S&amp;P 500, both Todd Combs and Ted Weschler handily did so. Each now runs a portfolio exceeding $7 billion. They’ve earned it. I must again confess that their investments outperformed mine. (Charlie says I should add “by a lot.”) If such humiliating comparisons continue, I’ll have no choice but to cease talking about them. Todd and Ted have also created significant value for you in several matters unrelated to their portfolio activities. Their contributions are just beginning: Both men have Berkshire blood in their veins. Weschler and Combs are evidently grade-A investors, who now have the greatest resumes imaginable, and yet neither make that much money by industry standards. As Andrew Ross Sorkin reported for Dealbook back in 2013, Weschler and Combs will pay much higher taxes working for Berkshire (than they would at hedge funds), because their compensation doesn't use the carried-interest loophole that allows managers across the industry to pay 15% taxes (rather than 35%) on their compensation.  Moreover, their base and bonus pay, does not match up with the normal industry structure. From Sorkin: “Both Todd and Ted will have performance pay based on 10 percent of the excess return over the S.&amp;P., averaged over multiple years,” Mr. Buffett told me. “If the S.&amp;P. averages 5 percent annually in the future, this means that the average hedge fund manager has received a 1 percent performance fee — 20 percent of 5 percent — before Todd and Ted receive anything.” “Nevertheless, I expect them to make a lot of money,” he added. “The difference is that they have to earn it by true investment performance.” In addition, both men receive modest salaries that Mr. Buffett said “will work out to about a tenth of 1 percent” of the assets they manage. “This compares to the 2 percent nonperformance fee which most hedge fund managers charge, even if they are losing money.” So why are these managers leaving so much on the table? Conor Sen, writing on his blog, offers up some insight based on his experience in the industry: Those familiar with hedge fund economics might not understand why Todd Combs and Ted Weschler would take less money working for Berkshire than they might be able to get in the hedge fund world. But having spent half my career at a hedge fund, I totally get it. If your investment management style requires a long-term perspective, long-term patience, and long-term capital, and you know what you want to do for the rest of your career, why take a gamble on the potential for more money if you have to operate in an environment that is notoriously short-term, at times unethical, and often not loyal? ... But there’s more to employee compensation and satisfaction than wages. Schedule flexibility matters. Workplace flexibility matters. The implicit or explicit promises of employers matter. Trust is a form of goodwill not found on any balance sheet. This is a cultural thing that will take time to appreciate, and not everyone will get it. But, and there’s no good way to quantify this, companies worthy of that trust may find it easier to maintain present profit margins more than profit margin skeptics appreciate. This strategy of creating goodwill to get lower prices is an explicit part of Berkshire's strategy. I went to a Berkshire Hathaway shareholder meeting a few years ago (disclosure: I own a single B share) and during the Q&amp;A section of the meeting, Buffett made the exact point that Berkshire can make acquisitions cheaper than other companies can because when they're buying a family business, the family can trust that Berkshire isn't going to plunder the assets, lay off workers, and chop it up. Owners of companies are often willing, according to Buffett, to accept less money for the promise that their prize possession will be taken care of once sold. It's for this reason that Buffett, in his letter, devotes space to talking about the Nebraska Furniture Mart — a Berkshire company that's just a rounding error in his bottom line. Read this section: I can’t resist, however, giving you an update on Nebraska Furniture Mart’s expansion into Texas. I’m not covering this event because of its economic importance to Berkshire – it takes more than a new store to move the needle on Berkshire’s $225 billion equity base. But I’ve now worked 30 years with the marvelous Blumkin family, and I’m excited about the remarkable store – truly Texas-sized – it is building at The Colony, in the northern part of the Dallas metropolitan area.  When the store is completed next year, NFM will have – under one roof, and on a 433-acre site – 1.8 million square feet of retail and supporting warehouse space. View the project’s progress at www.nfm.com/texas. NFM already owns the two highest-volume home furnishings stores in the country (in Omaha and Kansas City, Kansas), each doing about $450 million annually. I predict the Texas store will blow these records away. If you live anywhere near Dallas, come check us out.  I think back to August 30, 1983 – my birthday – when I went to see Mrs. B (Rose Blumkin), carrying a 11/4-page purchase proposal for NFM that I had drafted. (It’s reproduced on pages 114 - 115.) Mrs. B accepted my offer without changing a word, and we completed the deal without the involvement of investment bankers or lawyers (an experience that can only be described as heavenly). Though the company’s financial statements were unaudited, I had no worries. Mrs. B simply told me what was what, and her word was good enough for me. Really, there's no trick about it. Buffett never skips a chance to emphasize that he treats people humanely, and that Berkshire is a family. This has allowed him to buy companies at lower prices, and get top talent for cheaper than the levels he considers obscene. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gleb GaranichAn anti-government protester attaches Ukrainian and EU flags on a barricade that faces a cordon of riot police in Kiev February 2, 2014.One interesting side note to the Ukraine conflict — an event that one geo-political expert, Ian Bremmer of Eurasia Group, has deemed the most destabilizing global situation since 9/11. Nobody saw it coming. Nobody, that is, in the group of global leaders, thinkers, media, business-people, etc., who consider themselves on top of all of the world's key issues, chatter about important matters on TV every night, and attend events like January's annual World Economic Forum in Davos. At this year's World Economic Forum, which took place about five weeks ago, there was talk out the ying-yang about the Japan-China conflict, the Iran problem, and the Palestinian-Israeli conflict — three tensions that many of the assembled thinkers and leaders considered the most pressing on the global agenda. Meanwhile, no one mentioned Ukraine. Even as late as last week, when everyone delighted in looking at pictures of ousted Ukrainian President Yanukovych's polished mansion and private zoo, few pundits were predicting that the Ukrainian situation could suddenly lead to a Russian invasion and a tense 90-minute telephone call between the President of the United States and the King president of Russia, as well as the escalating crisis that we're all now obsessed with. Which is good reminder of a maxim that is useful when it comes to evaluating the never-ending predictions about world events, market moves, and other items of supposed consequence that we all hear every day: Nobody knows nothing. FREE AppDownload
Solan Gemechu/AFPA farmer shifts dried teff crop to separate seeds from stalks at Ada village in Bishoftu town, Oromia region of Ethiopia, February 21, 2014.Under a searing midday sun, a herd of cattle circles atop a pile of golden teff, thrashing the wheat-like grain, a method that has been practised by Ethiopian farmers for centuries. The crop, mostly grown in the Horn of Africa, is a key part of the country's heritage and a crucial food staple, but is also gaining increased interest abroad among health afficionados seeking a nutritious, gluten-free alternative to wheat. "Ethiopians are proud of the crop because it is almost our identity," said Solomon Chanyalew, director of the Debre Zeyt Agricultural Research Centre, a teff research hub. "But these days, teff is getting global attention," he said. Relatively unknown outside of Ethiopia -- for now -- the cereal is predicted to replace quinoa as the latest global "super-food". But a ban on exports to control price hikes at home has left farmers tied to local consumers, limiting their contribution to growing markets abroad. The poppy-seed sized grain is renowned for its nutritional qualities. Mineral-rich and high in protein, teff is also a slow-releasing food, ideal for diabetics, and sought after by people with a gluten intolerance, or Celiac disease. "Teff is not only gluten-free, which is an increasingly important aspect of foods that is being sought out, but it's also incredibly nutritious. Many people consider teff to be a super-food," said Khalid Bomba, CEO of Ethiopia's Agricultural Transformation Agency. In Ethiopia, teff is used to make injera, a spongy fermented pancake topped with meat or vegetable stew and consumed with an almost religious devotion, often three times a day. In the West however, where it is touted by celebrity chefs and health-conscious Hollywood stars, the grain is most commonly ground into flour and used to make biscuits, breads, pastas and even teff juice. It is also a resilient crop; it can grow between sea level and 3,000 metres and is both drought- and flood-resistant, ideal for Ethiopia’s dry highlands. But despite its versatility, Ethiopia's 6.5 million teff farmers struggle to meet local demand -- let alone growing demand from abroad -- with limited access to seed varieties, fertilisers and modern machinery that would allow for higher yields. Teff also suffers from a lack of research since it is considered an "orphan crop", unlike global crops like rice, wheat, and maize, which are widely studied and well-funded. "People don't want to work on teff, basically, it's not paying," said Kebebew Assefa, one of only two full-time teff researchers in Ethiopia.   - Risk of price hike -   Regardless, productivity has climbed to bridge the supply gap, with the introduction of 19 new teff varieties and improved farming techniques. In the last four years, yields have increased from 1.2 to 1.5 million tonnes per hectare, which Khalid said bodes well. "The production increases are what gives us the confidence that Ethiopia will be able to compete at a global level when it comes to tapping into the increasing demand from consumers in Europe, in London, or New York or Brisbane," he said. An estimated two million tonnes per hectare is required to reach export potential. For now, the ban on exports remains in place to avoid the pitfalls of quinoa in Bolivia, where most people could not afford the staple crop after the surge in global popularity. The price of teff -- $72 (52 euros) per quintal -- is already too expensive for the majority of Ethiopians who earn less than two dollars per day. But farmers are eager to export their teff, well aware of the higher prices they can fetch. "I want to sell it abroad because it's going to have a good market and I will earn good money and it will bring good motivation for my work," said Tirunesh Merete, 60, who has been growing teff for nearly four decades. Neighbouring farmer Amha Abraham said he is keen to make more money, but recognises that local markets need to be fed first. "If we export teff to other countries then we can get a lot of money, but we must provide first for our country's consumption," he said, standing near a giant pile of golden teff stalks, used for roofing and as cattle feed. Until the export ban is lifted, Ethiopian farmers remain excluded from a growing international industry, with teff products appearing on shelves in health food stores across North America and Europe. "Everybody has started talking about gluten-free," said Rob Roffel, CEO of the Dutch company Consenza, which produces gluten-free foods from teff grown in the Netherlands. "The demand for gluten-free foods mainly was for Celiacs... but what we see now more and more is other target groups interested in teff flour," he said, adding that his business has grown 30 percent annually since 2006. In the meantime, Khalid said he has high hopes for teff. "If you look at what’s happened with quinoa, it’s a $150 million market in five years and teff is actually much more nutritious and much more resilient than quinoa," he said. "So we think there's a much bigger market opportunity for teff."   Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange February 4, 2014. Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus passes along some of the stories traders are reading on this very busy weekend. Here's a sampling. Russian troops took over Crimea as the parliament in Moscow gave President Vladimir Putin a green light Saturday to use the military to protect Russian interests in Ukraine - Putin sought and quickly got his parliament's approval to use its military to protect Russia's interests across Ukraine - Ignoring President Barack Obama's warning Friday that "there will be costs" if Russia intervenes militarily, Putin sharply raised the stakes in the conflict over Ukraine's future evoking memories of Cold War brinkmanship. (AP) Gazprom has hinted that it may raise gas prices for Ukraine if the country fails to pay off its debts, in the clearest sign yet of Russia’s willingness to use economic levers to put pressure on the new government in Kiev. (FT) A Chinese manufacturing gauge fell to an eight-month low in February, adding to headwinds for growth as Premier Li Keqiang prepares to map out the government's economic strategy to the nation's legislature - The Purchasing Managers' Index was at 50.2, the National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said today in Beijing. That compared with January's 50.5 reading and the 50.1 median analyst estimate. (Bloomberg) George Soros and John Paulson are taking major stakes in the flotation of a Spanish property group, reflecting an increasing confidence among investors in the eurozone periphery’s economic recovery - The two hedge fund managers – who were ranked first and fourth in the world for their total earnings in 2013 – have both taken €92m stakes in Hispania Activos Inmobiliarios, said people with knowledge of the deal (FT) Apple’s television division, long dubbed a “hobby” by its executives, is now a billion-dollar business, Tim Cook told investors at an annual meeting on Friday. - In mid-2013, Mr Cook said the existing Apple TV box – which has sold for the same price since it was introduced in 2010 – had sold more than 13m units to date. Horace Dediu, technology commentator with Asymco, estimates that the company has sold a total of 28m TV boxes since 2007, generating cumulative hardware revenues of about $3.5bn. An implied growth rate of 80 per cent would make it Apple’s fastest-growing device (FT) Speculators' net bearish bets on U.S. 10-year Treasury note futures fell for a second straight week (Reuters) Hedge funds cut their net long position in arabica coffee this week by 16% to profit from the biggest monthly gain in 20 years and raised their bullish exposure to natural gas just before prices for the heating fuel fell (Reuters) FREE AppDownload
    The old world tradition of adding butter to coffee has recently re-emerged as a performance enhancer embraced by the likes of Bulletproof Executive founder Dave Asprey and holistic health guru Andrew Weil.  Weil asserts that the often demonized saturated fat poses no risk for increased heart disease and may actually help "stimulate the body's fat-burning potential" in addition to boosting creativity and productivity. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis.  FREE AppDownload
Elon Musk-chaired SolarCity shares are sliding after hours. The company failed to report full earnings on time due to new accounting delays from new acquisitions and changing overhead costs.   But the dip belies what is shaping up to be the total dominance of the firm in the U.S. residential distributed generation (D.G.) market. The firm said they'd installed 280 megawatts of solar power last year, the equivalent of up to 70,000 homes. According to their data, as of Q3, one-third of the rooftop panels you now see in the U.S. have now been installed by SolarCity. We haven't even seen Q4, due to the delay. SolarCity FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockMiami is attracting the LeBron James of Wall Street, the Dwyane Wade of Greenwich equity, and the Chris Bosh of Boston — financial titans who are relocating to pay less in taxes and maintain a luxury lifestyle with a glittering social scene.  It's already the 2nd most popular financial hub in the country after NYC, and The Miami Downtown Development Authority is doing everything it can to make itself attractive to bankers through an initiative called the DWNTWN campaign. Lloyd Blankfein and Leon Black are rumored to have bought Miami condos recently, and the latest hotshot to move his business there is Mark Spitznagel, founder of hedge fund Universa Investments. “Florida’s business-friendly policies ... offer the perfect environment for us as we expand,” said Spitznagel. “I would expect to see more firms like Universa voting with their feet and relocating to a more hospitable business and tax environment, especially as many local governments are trying to tighten their grip on businesses.” The nightlife and beaches don't hurt either. FREE AppDownload
Mark Lennihan/APYale Professor and Nobel Laureate Robert Shiller has a great piece in the New York Times today that shows why he's one of the greatest economic thinkers of our time. The piece is kind of about Bitcoin — which he continues to think is a straight-up bubble — but actually about how technology and electronic money can revolutionize the financial system in a good way. Shiller has three inter-related ideas, and surprisingly they all spring forth from something that Chile did in the 1960s, when it created a quasi-currency called the UF that was designed to track inflation. If inflation rapidly accelerated, the UF would become more valuable against the Chilean Peso, allowing UF holders to maintain buying power. Goods (like one's rent check) could be priced in UF, so that the price could stay the same all the time, automatically adjusting with inflation. Shiller proposes three ideas: First he thinks that other countries should adopt digital versions of the UF. He proposes calling them "baskets" reflecting the fact that their value will track a basket of goods. Then he suggests companies like Square and PayPal (at the forefront of digital money) should allow for automatic payments in these baskets, even across boarders, automatically adjusting for different currencies, etc.. And finally he proposes the creation of multiple baskets in each country, so that there could be one that reflects the needs of senior citizens (who buy different stuff than young people) and one that reflects young homeowners and so forth. And he also envisions financial assets that are directly linked to a country's growth: And there could be a “trills” unit — a concept that Mark Kamstra of York University and I have been advocating — that represents one trillionth of a country’s most recently estimated annual G.D.P. There should also be a unit that grows or retreats with per-capita daily consumption. This could be used for pension and Social Security payments as a form of intergenerational risk-sharing: The idea is that payments to older people would rise and fall with overall consumption. With many kinds of baskets, it will be easier to set prices and make contracts that are sensible for the long term. With digitization, all of this should be possible, allowing us to keep what works in our modern financial system, and upgrading it to make it even better. None of this will satisfy Bitcoin believers – who believe in a totally different kind of innovation — but this is a good starting point to how the existing system of money can be built upon. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fred ProuserWhy aren't businesses investing more? It's a question people have been asking for years, as profits keep pushing towards record levels, and corporate cash keeps piling up, while yielding very little. In a piece at Project Syndicate, Mohamed El-Erian offers 5 possible reasons why this is the case. Most of them are fairly standard. The economic outlook remains uncertain. The Chinese financial system casts a dark cloud over the entire global economy. There's uncertainty about budgets and monetary policy. But one answer is particularly intriguing: Third, while companies recognize that innovation is a key comparative advantage in today’s global economy, they are also humbled by its increasingly winner-take-all nature. Successful innovation today is a lot less about financing and much more about finding the “killer app.” As a result, many companies, less convinced that “normal” innovation yields big payoffs, end up investing less overall than they did before. The most obvious example to point to here is Microsoft vs. Apple. This chart is a couple years old, but the point is still totally valid; Microsoft has long obliterated Apple in terms of the amount it spends on R&amp;D. BI But everyone knows that for basically the last decade, Apple has been unmatched in terms of innovations that lead to commercial successes. And in part it's the winner-take-all nature of the economy. Regardless of how strong Microsoft's mobile products have been technically, they just haven't been able to gain traction El-Erian's statement echoes something similar that Larry Summers said just this week when talking about the Facebook acquisition of WhatsApp, the 4-year old messaging company that was worth shelling out $19 billion for. Ponder for example that the leading technological companies of this age, I think for example of Apple and Google, find themselves swimming in cash and facing the challenge of what to do with a very large cash hoard. Ponder the fact that WhatsApp has a greater market value than Sony with next to no capital investment required to achieve it. Ponder the fact that it used to require tens of millions of dollars to start a significant new venture. Significance new ventures today are seeded with hundreds of thousands of dollars in the information technology era. All of this means reduced demand for investment with consequences for the flow of - with consequences for equilibrium levels of interest rates. In a winner-take-all economy, the relationship between investment spending and outcomes becomes less direct. When a company that's taken in almost no cash becomes a $19 billion behemoth, it's hard to draw any line between how much you spend on investment and innovation and payoff. So much of it is luck and network effects, and having, as El-Erian puts it, that "killer app" that takes over the world. Obviously this analysis doesn't apply to all firms, but this is a powerful trend that may explain a lot. FREE AppDownload
LPL ResearchJeff KleintopBusiness Insider is offering a new feature in our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" email newsletter where we interview top strategists, economists, and traders to get their thoughts on key market questions. Our first interview is with Jeffrey Kleintop, the chief market strategist at LPL Financial. If you sign up for the email, you would have seen the Q&amp;A already! Sign up at the bottom. BUSINESS INSIDER: To what extent do you think poor weather has impacted this winter’s economic data? JEFF KLEINTOP: It's been significant, but not the whole story as growth remains below average. While seasonal adjustments attempt to capture normal variations, data from NOAA shows that snowfall and cold (heating degree days) have been extreme this winter with the worst coming in February and likely to impact data yet to be reported. The stock market is clearly giving the data the benefit of the doubt since the combination of genuinely weak economic data and ongoing tapering would be giving investors more of a cold chill than what we have seen. I would expect a few more "growth scares" this year like we saw in January that take stocks down 5%+ before reversing. BI: What’s the big story that nobody is talking about right now? JK: The consistency of domestic equity mutual fund inflows this year during the January pullback and since reported by ICI is a big story. Investors chase five-year returns and they keep going up as we roll off the last of the financial crisis bear market. The 5 year annualized return for the S&amp;P 500 is now 25%! The second wind for the bull market from individual investors finally rotating back to stocks may be being underestimated. BI: Are you optimistic about Janet Yellen as Fed chair? JK: She is the first Fed chair in over three decades to have hair--it will take some getting used to. But seriously, she marks a shift in the balance of focus on the Fed's dual mandate from inflation to employment. The longer-term impact may be a steeper yield curve than what we have been used to or the market currently expects.  BI: The stock market is roaring back to all time highs. Do issues in EM not have as big an impact on U.S. markets as people argued a few weeks ago? JK. The weakness in emerging markets should not be seen as a signal of a broad global economic deterioration that could spread and tip the world back into a global recession. In fact, just the opposite—many emerging markets had become dependent upon global economic weakness. The soft global economy of the past five years prompted the Federal Reserve (Fed) and other central banks to pump money into the global financial system, encouraging capital to flow into the emerging markets and allowing them to run unsustainable current account and budget deficits. Now, as global growth is improving, we are seeing the Fed begin to slow its bond purchases, and that change is prompting some emerging markets to have to quickly adjust by devaluing their currencies and sharply slowing spending. So, much of the turmoil in the emerging markets is actually the result of the improving economic growth around the world and not a sign that it is weakening.  BI: What’s something you’ll be watching this week and next? JK: I will be watching sector leadership. With economic data mostly missing expectations this year it makes sense that defensive sectors like utilities and health care have outperformed this year and posted solid gains. But much of that performance may be the result of a poor stock market return YTD and falling yields than a true rotation to defensives. In fact, cyclical sectors have been generally outperforming over the past month as stocks rebounded. If the data starts to improve as the weather improves, defensive and interest rate sensitive sectors like Utilities would be at risk as rates move higher. FREE AppDownload
This illustrates several characteristics about the American "system".  First, it has de-stigmatized bankruptcies, as we saw with GM and Chrysler.  Second, bankruptcy is not failure;  it is a process by which the creditors are held at bay while restructuring or reorganization can take place.  While economists often focus on the barriers to entry, by removing the stigma from bankruptcy and easing the process, it makes lower the barriers to exit.    Bankruptcy does not necessarily mean liquidation, but when it does, it allows, the recycling of people and capital.  It is an important, even if under-appreciated, part of the flexibility of the United States.   This stands in stark contrast with Europe.  Consider Rome.  Florence Mayor Renzi has become the new Prime Minister of Italy and one of his first acts was to withdraw the proposal from  former Prime Minister Letta to bailout Rome.    Letta was offering a program of about 850 mln euros, which required parliamentary approval by the end of February.     The Northern League and the 5-Star Movement mounted a filibuster to oppose.  Reports indicate that Rome is running out of money quickly.  It will not have sufficient funds to pay the 25,000 city workers, pay for petrol for its buses, or collect garbage, as early as Saturday,  according to reports citing Rome's Mayor Marino.   Separately, Naples, Italy's third largest city (after Rome and Milan) received a (ten year) loan from the national government for about 220 mln euro and required the city to cut spending by 700 mln euros over the decade.   Naples' Mayor De Magistris indicated that spending was cut by about 200 mln euros last year.  Last month, a court  rejected a plan to reduce its debt by around 1 bln euros.   Reports suggest that several large international banks have derivative contracts with the city.   In response to the economic weakness and rising expenses, many cities bought derivatives (often swaps and similar products) from the banks to reduce their short-term interest rate expenses.   The word from Rome is that the Renzi government is working on measures that will offer the city funds.  The program might be included in a decree law, which allows them to go into effect without initial parliamentary approval.  This is an undesired distraction for the new national government.   The potential disruptive consequences of a Rome default are deterring officials from taking the Detroit path.   Yet new funds cannot begin to address the problem let alone the symptoms.  There is not much industry in Rome that can be taxed and yet, as a major tourist destination, its public services are heavily used.  Rome's finances, as they are, rely on a narrow tax base of mostly garbage-collection fees and the sale of bus and subway tickets.  A Dow Jones report,without citing its source,  suggested that about 25% of the passengers on Rome's public transit system don't buy tickets, compared to 2% in London. The estimated cost is 100 mln euros a year.    Employee absenteeism in the public transportation and garbage collections runs as near 20%, which is well above the national average.   There is a tourist attraction in Rome.  On the street level, it is a church, but if your enter and walk down some stairs, you can see below it was a pagan temple and below that an primitive home. Much of the marble in the Vatican was stripped from the ancient Romans.  For a city that has recycled itself like few others, it is a pity that what Keynes called "paper shackles" are preventing it from re-cycling itself once again.  Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
Tech, however? Kind of a disaster, up only 0.4% over the past year and up at an average annual pace of only 1.6% over the past three years, according to JPMorgan. The bank’s economics team provides some context: Spending on high-tech equipment had been a dynamic high-growth sector in previous decades, with annual real growth averaging more than 20% per year though much of the 1990s and 10% to 15% per year in the expansion last decade. Over the past few years high-tech spending has been growing even more slowly than over- all GDP All high-tech spending, on both equipment and software, has also been slipping as a share of GDP, falling from the equivalent of 4.7% of GDP in 4Q00 to 3.4% of GDP in 4Q13. Here’s the puzzle: some economists have theorized that economic policy uncertainty is holding back business investment. Remove the uncertainty, and business will start spending. As JPMorgan sees it, this theory does not fit the data. First, uncertainty — as measured by the Economic Policy Uncertainty Index — has been coming down since 2011, but business spending has moderated, too. JPM: “In short, spending trends through this expansion seem at odds with the uncertainty-driven story of capital spending.” Second, why would policy uncertainty affect tech and non-tech equipment spending differently? Weird. JP Morgan So what’s the deal? The bank’s economists theorize the tech-spending slowdown reflects a slowing in the pace of technological advance, thus less reason to buy fancy, new machines: In the late ‘90s real prices for IT equipment would routinely decline at over a 10% annual pace, more recently that pace of price decline has moderated to between 2-3%. Barring some unforeseen development in IT production technologies, a return to the declines seen in the ’90s seems unlikely. At least for the foreseeable future, business spending on high-tech looks like it will do no better than the trend for old-economy, low-tech capital goods. Beyond the issue at hand, tech investment trends could be evidence that the “great stagnation,” techno-pessimists are correct. A possible counter would be that tech equipment prices, and perhaps other IT products, are being improperly measured. AEI’s Stephen Oliner: And one example that reflects the research I’m doing now concerns the prices that we measure in the producer price index, which is the U.S. official price index produced by the Bureau of Labor Statistics for semiconductors, particularly the microprocessors that go into computers, laptops, desktops, tablets, et cetera. The PPI shows that the price declines for those goods, which were extremely rapid throughout almost the entire history that they’ve been produced, have basically come to a halt — that in the last couple of years there have been no price declines to speak of at all, which is very strange and is in conflict with the fact that innovation in that part of the economy is still proceeding at a rapid rate.  And it raises questions about whether the procedures that are being used to measure those prices are appropriate.  And I personally think that they’re not, that prices are actually falling more rapidly than the official statistics would show. As a techno-optimist, I would prefer to believe Oliner is correct. But if he is, what is really happening to tech spending? FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersDesignated successor Reinhardt is seen on a huge TV screen as outgoing utgoing Chairman of Swiss drug maker Novartis Vasella addresses the the annual shareholders general meeting in BaselZURICH (Reuters) - Swiss pharma group Novartis &lt;NOVN.VX&gt; will work more closely with rival Roche &lt;ROG.VX&gt; but rules out a merger, its chairman said in a newspaper interview on Sunday. Asked whether the two companies wanted to stay independent, Joerg Reinhardt, who took over as Novartis chairman in August, told Swiss newspaper SonntagsZeitung: "Absolutely." He said, however, that he'd met outgoing Roche Chairman Franz Humer a few weeks ago and was also exchanging emails with his successor Christoph Franz. "Two pharma groups working in the same location have many topics in common," he said. Both Roche and Novartis are based in Basel in north-western Switzerland. Asked whether Novartis could sell its stake in Roche that was built up under his predecessor Daniel Vasella, Reinhardt said: "The shares are in good hands with us. For as long as Roche does well, we take pleasure in them." Novartis holds a third of Roche's bearer shares &lt;RO.S&gt;. In October, Roche Chief Executive Severin Schwan also knocked back speculation that the company could merge with Novartis. Reinhardt said in the interview Novartis hoped to conclude an ongoing review of its over-the-counter drugs, animal health and vaccines businesses by the end of the year. "Then we will know if and how we have to change our structure and organization," he said, adding discussions on possible buys or divestments were under way with partners. "There are not many players and everybody talks to everybody," he said. Novartis said in January it was looking at options for the three businesses and wanted the review to be completed by the end of summer. Reinhardt said Novartis' profitability was only temporarily under pressure due to quality issues in the U.S. and Canada, the fact that the vaccines division was not profitable and falling sales of its former blockbuster Diovan. "Our profitability will rise again," he said, without giving details. (Reporting by Silke Koltrowitz; editing by Jason Neely) FREE AppDownload
It is almost like the first law of thermodynamics:  an object remains at rest or in motion unless acted upon by another force.  No other force has emerged sufficiently strong to counter the recent trends.  The market accepts that, even though the chair of the Fed suggests that it is difficult to determine how much of the recent economic weakness is due to weather, the measured tapering will continue.  Yet, investors also recognize that tapering is not tightening and that the first rate hike is still well over a year away (H2 15).   Even with the German Constitutional Court raising questions about the legitimacy of the ECB's OMT, a new government in Italy, the political uncertainty in Cyprus, and the fissures in the Ukraine, the euro has remained well supported.  The preliminary CPI report reduces the perception of the pressure on the ECB to take bold action, such as QE or a negative deposit rate at the meeting on March 6 to address the threat of deflation.   A small cut in the repo rate (25 bp) would have next to no impact on inflation or inflation expectations.  Nor would it help the ECB address its other two challenges: elevated and volatile EONIA, and the continued reduction in lending to businesses and households.  A cut in the lending rate, would address the former, while the latter may require a new program (which Draghi has hinted involving buying bank bonds that are backed by loans, as in asset-backed securities).  Euro:   Technical indicators are constructive, but the two-day rally at the end of last week has brought the euro near the top of its Bollinger band. Consolidation or even a small pullback toward $1.3770 early in the week may be seen as a new buying opportunity ahead of the ECB meeting and US jobs data, where the early call is for an increase of about 155k.   The next immediate target for the euro is the $1.3900 area that was approached just after Xmas, but it is the $1.40 area that poses the next key hurdle.    The move to new highs for the year did not see the benchmark 3-month implied euro volatility increase.  It remains a low vol environment.   Sterling:  Barring a significant downside surprise in the UK's three PMIs due out in the first week in March, the market will continue to see the BOE as the first of the major central banks to lift rates.  Most expectations are for the first hike in Q1 2015, but strong data will keep the risk asymmetrically biased toward earlier rather than later.  The Dec 14 and March 15 short-sterling futures ended last week little changed, but are poised move lower (implying higher rates).  This is consistent with sterling challenging and surpassing the mid-February high (~$1.6825).   Over the slightly longer term, a test on $1.70 still seems reasonable.   Yen:  The technical outlook for the yen is decidedly less clear than for the euro and sterling.  The uptrend off the early February lows was violated in the second half of last week.  The dollar recorded lower highs and lower lows every day last week, yet there is not much momentum.  Three-month implied volatility looks set to test last year's lows set in October near  8.5%. after starting the February above 10%.  The RSI is flat and MACDs may cross lower, but from well below zero.  The 100-day moving average, which the dollar has closed below once since mid-Nov 2013 comes in near JPY101.85 now, and is still rising about 20 ticks a week.   The JPY102.45 marks nearby resistance, but the JPY102.70-80 capped efforts to rally in February remains the key hurdle to stronger dollar recovery.  Canadian dollar:   The Bank of Canada is likely to retain a dovish tone at the March policy meeting, but barring some significant economic deterioration, a rate cut is not envisioned.  Although technical indicators are not generating a strong signal, we are inclined to look for the US dollar to correct lower.  This could bring the dollar toward CAD1.10.  A break then would could spur a move to CAD1.0920.   Resistance is see near CAD1.1150.   Australian dollar:   The technical outlook is poor.  It is the only major currency to finish lower against the dollar last week, managing to hold just above the 50-day moving average near $0.8910.  The 5-day moving average will likely move below the 20-day at the start of the week for the first time in nearly a month.  MACDs are rolling over and the RSI is weakening after moving sideways in recent weeks.   The initial target is in the $0.8840-80 band.  In the bigger picture, though the month-long rally is likely over and the longer term down trend may be resuming.  Fundamentally, the market has taken on board the neutral RBA, but weak data and slowing of its largest trading partner may spur expectations of another cut in late Q2 or Q3.  A move back above $0.9000 would help improve the technical tone.   Mexican peso:  The dollar spent last week within the previous week's range against the Mexican peso, but posted the lowest weekly closes since the first full week of the year.  It is near the lower end of the trading range seen since mid-January.  A break of the MXN13.19-MXN13.20 area could spur a move toward MXN13.00, though technical indicators are not generating particularly strong signals.   The upper end of the range is seen near MXN13.40.  Observations from the CFTC Commitment of Traders for the CME currency futures: 1.  Position adjustments in the reporting week ending February 25 were mostly minor.  There were not gross position adjustments of more than 10k contracts.  Indeed, only 2 of the 14 gross positions we track were in excess of 6k contracts.  Short sterling positions were reduced by 8.2k contracts to 45.8k.  The short Canadian dollar positions were cut by 9.3k contracts to 83.5k, which is the second largest gross short position after the yen's 99.8k contracts. 2.   The 5.2k contract increase in the gross long Swiss franc position was sufficiently larger than the 2k increase in the gross short positions to swing the net franc position back to the long side, albeit barely with a 400 contracts. 3.  The increase in the net long sterling position was not a function of new longs being established, as the gross longs were actually reduced by 1.7k contracts to 74.6k.   Rather it reflected an 8.2k gross short contracts were covered. 4.  The net short Australian dollar position of 39k contracts is the smallest since late November.  The decline has been fueled by short-covering.  The gross short position most recently peaked in late-Jan/early Feb near 80k contracts.  During the latest reporting period, it fell 4.5k contracts to slip below 50k.  Despite the fact that the Aussie rallied 4 cents from the multi-year low in late-Jan through mid-Feb, the gross long positions are a lowly 10.3k, having risen by nearly 1k in the period.  This is the smallest of the gross positions we track.  There are even more gross long yen contracts (14.7k) than Australian dollars. Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuya Shino Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe speaks during a lower house budget committee session at the parliament in Tokyo February 20, 2014. TOKYO (Reuters) - When Tokyo asked for bidders to build what is expected to be the world's largest fish market on the city's vacant eastern edge there were no takers. In a graphic illustration of how the hopes for "Abenomics" are falling short, the city was forced to raise by two-thirds its budget for the project to more than $1 billion before some of Japan's top construction companies stepped forward. "Wages and material costs are rising, and that's why we failed to attract bidders the first time we tried," said Koji Ishii, a city official overseeing the project, on a sprawl of landfill at Toyosu, next to Tokyo Bay. Tokyo's predicament highlights a deeper problem for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's economic revival plan for Japan, comprising his "three arrows" of hyper-easy monetary policy, fiscal spending and growth-generating structural reform. The construction industry has gone through a scorching restructuring over the past decade and a half of hard times since Tokyo last opened the fiscal taps, government officials and managers in the business say. Many firms are choosing to walk away from government projects rather than invest more in equipment or hire workers - fixed costs that would be hard to shed in the next downturn. In the midst of a building boom, Japan's construction companies, who stand to benefit most directly from Abe's policies, are acting as though the good times will not last. Some critics argue that spending on public works projects - a mainstay of Japan's economic stimulus efforts in the 1990s - is wasteful and Abe would be better off focusing on deregulation and reform. But progress on that "third arrow" has been slow, and while Bank of Japan's massive monetary stimulus has been generally judged effective, the fiscal boost many hoped would keep the economy rolling is proving hard to restart. BLUNTING THE SECOND ARROW Problems with the "second arrow" of Abenomics are biting at a crucial moment for Japan's recovery. Investors have grown wary of slowing growth as Japan's economy heads for a speed bump: a 3-percentage point hike in the consumption tax hike in April. The benchmark Nikkei stock index is down nearly 8.5 percent this year - making Japan the worst performing major stock market. Even before Abe's public works push, contractors were already struggling to absorb demand for new building projects tied to the 2020 Tokyo Olympics and reconstruction work in the areas of northern Japan destroyed by a 2011 tsunami. "Prime Minister Abe has been driving more public works, but we have work to be done for reconstruction in northern Japan and we have to control the number of projects we can take," said Junichi Ichikawa from Obayashi Corp, one of the contractors involved in the construction of Tokyo's new fish market. With companies cautious and workers scarce, local governments have been forced to cancel or scale back plans. As a result, money budgeted for bolstering the economy has stayed stranded in public coffers. Japan had to roll over to the next budget $37 billion it failed to spend out of the $98 billion earmarked for public works in the last fiscal year to March 2013. Government-funded construction projects contributed only a third as much to growth in the fourth quarter as they had in the previous two quarters. Earlier this month, the Ministry of Finance issued an unusual directive urging other government agencies to expedite public works spending in the face of an endemic shortage of labor, especially in skilled jobs where experienced workers are retiring and a younger generation has not been trained. The government also hiked the allocation for labor costs by 7 percent. OPEN FIELD, FAILED AUCTION At the Toyosu site, three cranes and a half dozen trucks were moving soil this week as a knot of workers assembled a fence, the first phase of a project to transform an expanse of open land as large as almost 60 soccer pitches into a wholesale fish market to replace the current, crowded market in Tsukiji, a tourist destination for its early morning bustle. The project is due to be completed by early 2016. The area nearby is also slated to be redeveloped to house Olympic athletes and major events for the 2020 games. Three groups won bids for the project, led by Taisei Corp, Shimizu Corp and Kajima Corp. Obayashi, Takenaka Corp, Tokyu Construction, Kumagai Gumi, Nishimatsu Construction are also involved. The Tokyo government will make up for the higher cost of the new fish market by delaying projects for ventilation and water distribution systems for the new market. The initial failed bidding process, in November, means that the project is already a month behind schedule, officials said. The Toyosu project is just one, high-profile, example of a widespread problem. In the northeast of Japan's main island, Honshu, the area destroyed by the 2011 tsunami and earthquake has seen a sharp rise in unsuccessful public works auctions. In December, a third of all jobs failed to attract bidders, government data show. That was up from zero percent just after the disaster. Other areas of Japan are also struggling to spend: 86 auctions for public works projects had to be re-run or cancelled in Abe's home area of Yamaguchi, including a $24-million disaster prevention centre that had been planned for the city of Iwakuni, Japanese media said. "There are too many projects issued at the same time, so companies have grown very selective because if you pick a big project and then can't gather enough workers, you go under," said Shozo Doi who runs a construction firm on the suburbs of Japan's second-largest city, Osaka. Nearly half of the construction companies surveyed by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport in December predicted it will be difficult for them to secure skilled workers in the next two months. The survey also showed that the shortage of skilled workers needed to work on the biggest projects has deepened since the spring of 2013. SHRINKING WORKFORCE Japan's construction workforce - like its population at large - is shrinking and aging, government data show. It is a third smaller than when public works peaked in 1997. As of 2010, about a fifth of all construction workers were over 60 years old. "Construction companies don't believe the status quo will last for another 10 years. That's why they don't want to employ more workers," said Yorihisa Matsuno, a lawmaker from the opposition Japan Restoration Party who recently raised the issue of the stalled public works pipeline in parliament. "It's very risky to employ people in Japan. The lifetime employment system means you can't fire them easily." At the same time, many projects are running over initial budgets because of rising costs for materials like steel and cement. Part of Abe's economic plan is to push prices higher and break away from the deflationary, slow-growth spiral that had held in Japan for a decade and a half. But the experience of the construction sector shows the risk from higher prices. Government outlays on roads, buildings and bridges are buying less for the same amount of money. Prices for steel girders, or H-bars, used in large-scale projects in Japan have jumped to 82 yen per kg from 70 yen per kg in less than a year. The biggest jump in prices has been recorded in the areas of highest demand - the disaster area north of Tokyo. The Economic Research Association, which tracks prices for construction materials, said its reading for a basket of materials in Sendai - the northeastern city at the heart of Japan's reconstruction boom - stands at the highest level since it began keeping records in the early 1990s. With Japan's economy slowing, many analysts believe the Abe government will ready another fiscal stimulus package - and more public works spending - later this year. There is also a building expectation that the Bank of Japan will have to expand its already unprecedented injection of money into the economy. "It's hard to say public works is the best policy, but it has to be done," said Koichi Haji, an economist at NLI Research Institute. "The government has not come up with a better alternative yet." (Editing by Alex Richardson) FREE AppDownload
