Thomson ReutersMester, President and CEO of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, walks with McAndrews, vice president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as they arrive for the opening reception of the Jackson Hole Economic Policy SymposiumNEW YORK (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve will likely raise interest rates next year since inflation, while a bit low now, remains stable and should rise to target by the end of 2016, a top Fed official said on Thursday. Loretta Mester, head of the Cleveland Fed, told reporters the central bank needs to be "forward looking" in deciding when to tighten policy based on inflation. She added that market volatility is to be expected as a rate-rise approaches.     (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderIt's easy to focus on everything that's going wrong in the world. If the media coverage of ISIS and Ebola has shown us anything, it's that we're easily seduced by fear-mongering. But Dr. Max Roser wants to remind us the world is getting better. That's why Roser, a fellow at the Institute for New Economic Thinking, created OurWorldinData, a website that tells the visual story of how the world is changing. "We are far away from an ideal world — we should work to end poverty, to end hunger, to end war — but in all of these aspects we are making progress," Roser wrote in an email to Business Insider.  Roser hopes people will find his work encouraging and energize them to make positive change. "Studying our world in data and understanding how we overcame challenges that seemed insurmountable at the time should give us confidence to tackle the problems we are currently facing," he wrote.  Here are 25 charts from Roser's website that show just how much global living standards have improved.
Harrison Jacobs/Business Insider The event is part of a growing "obstacle course" trend among fitness enthusiasts and weekend warriors. There is no shortage of similar competitions, including the Spartan Race, the Warrior Dash, the Color Run, and the Superhero Scramble. All cater to people yearning to do something extraordinary. A common refrain in marketing materials, from employees, and from "Mudders" is to get up off the couch and "overcome your fears." It costs between $125 and $500 to participate in a race. For first-timers, who make up the majority of Mudders at any event, it's about overcoming a challenge and team-building. Most people participate with a team, some with friends, some with coworkers, and others with random groups of people assembled specifically for the event. We followed one group — the Brooklyn Fitness Team — from training through the event to see what it takes to prepare and run a Tough Mudder.
Thomson ReutersTokyo Stock Exchange staff members work at the bourse at TSE in TokyoBy Lisa Twaronite TOKYO (Reuters) - Asian shares wobbled in early trading on Friday, while the euro wallowed around two-year lows after European Central Bank President Mario Draghi vowed to take more easing steps to spark growth in the euro zone. Investors were likely to remain cautious ahead of the key U.S. nonfarm payrolls report later in the session. Solid gains in employment would increase speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve could raise U.S. interest rates in the middle of next year. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan  was down about 0.1 percent in early trading, while Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 0.6 percent. On Thursday, Wall Street rose in a volatile session, with the Dow Jones industrial average  and S&amp;P 500  hitting record closing highs, and European shares posting modest gains after Draghi said further stimulus means the ECB's balance sheet would be as large as it was in March 2012, when it grew to 3 trillion euros. Draghi's remarks came after the ECB kept interest rates at a record low of 0.05 percent. "The trade in FX still centers around policy divergence and in Draghi's own words, the 'main message' today is that 'ECB assets will expand as others contract.' As long as there is a risk of additional easing from the ECB, the euro will remain under pressure," said Kathy Lien, managing director at BK Asset Management in New York, in a note to clients. But with speculators holding the largest amount of euro/dollar short positions since July 2012, the single currency is vulnerable to a short squeeze up to $1.2600, she added, and said she viewed any euro rallies as an opportunity to sell before its eventual move down to $1.2250. In early Asian trading, the euro edged up to $1.2383 after brushing a more than two-year low of $1.2370. The dollar bought 115.12 yen, not far from a fresh 7-year peak of 115.52 touched overnight. U.S. data showed the number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits fell more than expected to 278,000 last week, compared with forecasts of 285,000. Claims have now been below the 300,000 threshold for eight straight weeks, suggesting that employment growth was gaining momentum. Later on Friday, the nonfarm payrolls are expected to show a rise of 231,000 jobs last month after increasing 248,000 in September, according to a Reuters survey of economists. The jobless rate is seen steady at a six-year low of 5.9 percent.  (Editing by Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe front grill of a Honda truck is shown on car lot in Carlsbad, CaliforniaDETROIT (Reuters) - Honda Motor Co  said it will recall an undisclosed number of U.S. cars from model years 2001 to 2006 to replace potentially defective Takata Corp  air bags. The action, announced on Thursday night, involves some of the nearly 1,000,000 cars previously included in a June recall, and a portion of the 560,000 cars recalled in April 2013. Honda did not provide an exact total. Honda said no injuries or fatalities related to the issue have been confirmed. Honda said U.S. dealers will replace the passenger side air bag inflator, which can rupture and send metal shards into the passenger compartment. At least four deaths have been linked to the defect.  (Reporting by Paul Lienert in Detroit; Editing by Chris Reese) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons1. The Aussie dollar’s fall isn’t over yet, according to a Commonwealth Bank expert in one of the most bearish outlooks you’ll ever get from an Aussie major. Richard Grace, CBA’s head of currency strategy, wrote a note to clients telling them the Aussie dollar will not “remain immune” to the move toward a stronger US dollar. Furthermore, the demand and currency adjustment in favour of the USD vis-à-vis the JPY and EUR appears set to remain in place for at least twelve months; and more likely a number of years. Consequently, with upward pressure on the USD, then AUD/USD must move lower, even if AUD continues to hold up relatively well on a trade-weighted basis. And he cites several more reasons before suggesting “maintaining a strategy of selling into rallies on the AUD/USD”. 2. In Asia yesterday, the Nikkei dipped back after the USDJPY surged to 115.50 before reversing more than 100 points, taking sentiment and stocks with it. The fall of 0.86% to 16,792 must be viewed in the context of the previous five-session gain of 10%+. The Hang Seng dipped 0.2% to 23,649 while stocks in Shanghai were up 0.28% to 2,426. With only the Japanese foreign investment data out, it’s a bit of a data vacuum in Asia today, but we get the RBA’s quarterly statement on monetary policy this morning at 11.30 (AEDT). 3. Locally, overnight on the ASX futures market, traders ignored yesterday’s trade and pushed it up 29 points to 5,522 bid this morning. Iron ore and coal both fell again and gold remains becalmed, so it might be an interesting day on the local market. 4. Facebook is going down the drain, just like Yahoo did in 1999. That’s today’s most unlikely theory and huge overreaction to the social media giant’s recent on-par earnings report. The theory, in a nutshell, is along the lines of Facebook is doomed because so much of its advertising depends on venture-backed tech startups. Once rates in the US rise, the money flowing to those startups will dry up, and advertising budgets will be cut. And yes, if a recession hits, Facebook will lose money, but so will everyone else. Here’s why it will survive. 5. Taking one (or three) for the team. 65-year-old Estalyn Walcoff visited a delightful living room on campus at New York University, where the nice researchers gave her a pill and asked her to lie down. Within an hour, she “experienced great anxiety”. The it turned to a sense of “oh my gosh” connectedness. 27-year-old Nick Fernandez saw all the colours of the rainbow. They were both tripping on psilocybin, the main psychoactive ingredient in magic mushrooms, in a trial studying why the drug appears to possess depression and anxiety-fighting qualities. 6. Jacqui Lambie is sticking up for the soldiers. As well she might, being a former one herself. But there’s a big story going on right now in the ADF with our fighting men and women being offered a pretty paltry below-inflation salary offer of 1.5% per year over three years. Lambie, being a PUP senator, holds a fair whack of power over the Federal Government and just said she’s going to use all of it to block as much legislation as she can until Tony Abbott coughs up for her fellow soldiers. 7. The new Star Wars film is filmed. But not ready, because about a year’s worth of CGI has to be added before ext year’s December release. It has a title though. As a thank you gift, director JJ Abrams gave all the cast a thank you note and a cap. 8. The Australian National Architect Awards were announced in Darwin last night and community-oriented projects dominated the show. Honours went to a housing project with an emphasis on communal spaces, a mental health facility with a welcome feel, a primary school which provides a sanctuary for the culturally diverse locals and a surf club which celebrates the coastal features and protects a fairy penguin habitat. All up, 43 awards and commendations were given to 36 projects across the 12 national categories. Here’s all the pics of the biggest winners. 9. The world’s second smartest man. There’s actually a thing called The World Genius Directory, which lists all the world’s top minds based on IQ tests. Rick Rosner is second on that list (right after first!) Rosner is writing his memoir “Dumbass Genius”, detailing his life as a stripper, roller-skater waiter and bouncer, and he told BI what really makes him feel dumb. For the record, the top mind belongs to Dr Evangelos Katsioulis, Greece, and the highest Australian is Tim Roberts (18th, IQ 178). 10. “I don’t know much about wine at all.” The understatement of the week from New Jersey resident Joe Lentini. If he did, he might have recognised that when the steak restaurant waitress said the Screaming Eagle Oakville 2011 was “thirty-seven fifty”, she meant “$3750<U+2033>. Cue world’s most outrageous bill shock. He should have taking a bag of goon – BI’s Megan Willett is hooked on the stuff and happy to tell the world why. BONUS ITEM: Headline of the Week to the Metro, UK, who came up with this after a bunch of West African illegal immigrants turned up on a beach showing signs of fever: Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn FREE AppDownload
We are now just hours from the October jobs report, which is set for release at 8:30 am ET Friday morning. Currently, Wall Street is expecting the report to show that nonfarm payrolls grew by 235,000 in October, down from September's 248,000, but still solid overall.  The expectations of users on Twitter, however, are a bit stronger. According to Bloomberg economist Michael McDonough, as of Thursday afternoon, Twitter users were expecting the report to show job gains of 243,500.  Bloomberg's Social Media Calculated NFP Consensus Forecast Chart: {BTWTNF Index GP&lt;Go&gt;} pic.twitter.com/hPL47JwXZJ Now, this is a dynamic forecast, and will change as users on Twitter tweet out their guesses for the jobs report over the next several hours.  But for right now, social media is a bit more bullish than Wall Street. You can read Shane Ferro's full preview of the jobs report here, and of course we will have live wall-to-wall coverage of the jobs report tomorrow morning.  FREE AppDownload
 FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisers. Bernanke: Everyone, Relax, Inflation Isn't Going To Happen (Financial Advisor Magazine) Everyone's freaking out now that QE is over. They're expecting major inflation, which happens after massive amounts of money are poured in. However, Bernanke is assuring everyone that serious inflation isn't going to happen. "There was 'no risk of inflation,' it was 'never a risk,' and it is 'not a risk now,'" Bernanke said on Wednesday, reports Evan Simonoff. Additionally, Bernanke noted that both the US and the UK were doing relatively better than Europe at the moment. He attributes this to the fact that both the US and the UK embraced QE. On the other hand, Europe did not implement a similar course of action — and could not have since Europe does not have "Eurobonds" — and thus is relatively struggling. But if inflation does happen, Bernanke doesn't seem too worried. "The Fed can deal with inflation if it happens," he said. Long-Term Care Hybrids Are Lower Cost Alternatives (Financial Planning) Long-term care policies are becoming increasingly expensive, so advisers may want to suggest long-term care hybrids. One option for clients is to purchase a fixed annuity with long-term care benefits for a lump sum. Even clients who have been turned down for stand-alone policies can go for this option. Unfortunately, this policy requires a large upfront pay, and "the cost of the LTC rider eats into the annuity's interest income." The second option is a universal life-insurance policy with a long-term-care benefit rider. In this case, clients can avoid paying for long-term-care policies that they will never need; however, the policy tends to be on the expensive side, and covers only three to four years. Financial Advisers Are Seriously Mis-using Liquid Alternative (Wealth Management) Liquid alternatives are supposed to reduce the overall risk to a portfolio, without drastically affecting the portfolio's performance. However, many financial advisers are not using liquid alternatives correctly. Instead of using them to diversify portfolios, advisers are "guilty of performance chasing," writes David Armstrong. And the number of advisers misusing liquid alternatives has significantly grown over the last decade. "Advisers don't know how to determine whether a fund is doing what it says it will do," said Nadia Papagiannis, the director of alternative investment strategy at Goldman Sachs. Additionally, she suggests that advisers "may want to look at investing in hedge funds themselves" to get at strategies they cannot otherwise pursue, or to "access them through a multi-strategy fund." Tap Into The Power Of Consistency To Woo Prospective Clients (Advisor Perspectives)   There are several key strategies advisers should follow to get prospective clients "off the fence." First, advisers need to show super-wealthy (and super-busy) clients that there is a concrete benefit to meeting with them, writes Dan Richards. One way to do that is to contact the prospects and walk them through questions regarding financial readiness. Additionally, there's an interesting phenomenon when people who have made a small commitment often feel the need to be consistent, and then continue making a commitment. So advisers should "introduce an intermediate step on the route to asking for [a prospective's] business," which may in turn hook the prospective for the long term. The SEC Fines 13 Brokerage Firms For Selling Junk-Rated Puerto Rico Bonds (The Wall Street Journal) The SEC "fined 13 brokerage firms for improperly selling junk-rated Puerto Rico bonds in increments below $100,000, the agency's first action under a rule designed to protect mom-and-pop municipal-bond investors from high-risk debt," reports Aaron Kuriloff. The firms didn't admit or deny whether or not they were guilty, but they paid fines ranges from $45,000 to $130,000.  The SEC has been working on better protecting the smaller investors in the municipal bond market, who make up the majority of investors in that category. The SEC's direct and public involvement in this case may be indicative of a longer trend in the future.      FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersEmployee of Ezaki Glico walks past a map displaying the companies in the Global Glico Group at Glicopia East, a museum of the company located next to its Kitamoto factoryBy Chang-Ran Kim and Ritsuko  Shimizu OSAKA (Reuters) - For the first time in its 92-year history, Japanese snacks maker Ezaki Glico  is getting serious about growing overseas, aiming to fatten its Pocky biscuit into a $1 billion brand to rival global giants such as Hershey's and Oreo. The company's Glico brand and its 48-year-old stick-shaped, chocolate-coated Pocky pretzels are household names in Japan but elsewhere the marque has stalled, capping the firm's overseas business at just a tenth of its $3 billion revenue. Now, the company is rewriting its branding and marketing strategies for Pocky, targeting a more than doubling in sales to $1 billion by 2020. Only 21 snack brands in the world belong to the billion-dollar club, none of them Asian. The plan involves the adoption of the Pocky name everywhere except Europe, where a joint venture is complicating matters, plus uniform new packaging and a universal tagline: "Share Happiness". "The hurdles are high, but if they succeed it would mean a huge boost to profits," said Tomonobu Tsunoyama, senior analyst at Tokai Tokyo Research Center, the research arm of Tokai Tokyo Securities. The task has fallen on Tsuyoshi Matsuki, appointed as global brand manager for Pocky, a post created in Thailand in 2012. To strengthen the product's brand identity, Matsuki standardised the package design to a red box for regular chocolate-flavoured Pocky, and came up with the new marketing slogan. This year in Malaysia, he re-branded the snack from "Rocky", its name there for the past four decades. "Sales were left mostly up to local distributors in Malaysia," Matsuki told Reuters at Ezaki Glico's office in Osaka. "Now, we're going to the stores directly for marketing and maybe next year we'll start running TV commercials to give brand recognition and sales a boost." That tactic has worked in Indonesia, where sales quintupled in 2013 as Glico enlisted popular girl band JKT48 to plug Pocky on TV. Sales staff also regularly visit Jakarta's schools to hand out free samples from red Pocky vans. Such efforts boosted Pocky's worldwide sales across 30 markets by a third to around $400 million in 2013.  BLAZING THE TRAIL Still, challenges abound. While rivals such as Hershey's, Oreo and KitKat are big in the West, Pocky's global push is starting in Southeast Asia, where Pocky is priced out of reach for many. "One major difficulty is penetrating the low-income groups. We lose on price against simple snacks like Oreo," Matsuki said, noting that lowering the price was one option. "But then, Pocky has the advantage of being unique." Indeed, the snack requires an elaborate production process. At a factory near Tokyo, noodle-shaped lines of dough disappear into a 45-metre-long oven whose temperature varies from start to end. Cuts are made in the dough just deep enough to ensure the biscuit breaks off after - not before - it's baked to form a straight edge. The chocolate-coating process is tightly guarded as a company secret. But that hasn't prevented the inevitable copycat products, whose quality Matsuki concedes is improving. "They're also cheaper than ours, so it's a bit of a headache." Another challenge is the brand name itself. In Europe, Pocky is sold as Mikado in a joint venture with Mondelez International  - the maker of Oreo, Nabisco and other billion-dollar snacks - and Ezaki Glico would need its partner's agreement if it wanted to re-brand. "For now, we'll stay with Mikado," Matsuki said. In the United States, meanwhile, Pocky is still a niche, sold mainly at Asian stores or the Asian section of supermarkets. Big retailers like Wal-Mart Stores  and Costco  mainly carry generic brands, leaving room for just a few non-generic products. By 2020, Matsuki expects Pocky to have only a limited foothold in the U.S. west coast - perhaps establishing a stick-snack section with its non-chocolate cousin Pretz - but not enough sales to pay for TV advertising. "It's incredibly difficult to enter the United States as a newcomer," Matsuki said. "But if we succeed in North America, we're talking about billions of dollars in sales." Whether Matsuki succeeds could determine how Ezaki Glico as a whole does on the global stage. "I look at my job as paving the path overseas for our other brands," he said. "If we're too slow with Pocky, everything behind it will get delayed. That's a huge responsibility."  (Editing by Stephen Coates) FREE AppDownload
AP"Candy Crush" maker King Digital did it again. For the second quarter in a row, the company returned basically all of its quarterly profit to shareholders.  On Thursday, the company reported adjusted profit of $177.4 million, or $0.56 per share, which beat expectations for earnings of $0.47. And the company is rewarding shareholders with a $150 million buyback program, which it hopes to execute in the first quarter of next year.  In immediate reaction, investors seem happy with the move: shares of King Digital were up more than 3% in after hours trade following the news. Buying back stock is fairly standard corporate behavior, a way to reward shareholders for investing in the business, but it is a somewhat more curious move from a company that just made its public debut in March.  As we wrote back in August, investors can see this decision to return cash to shareholders as a reward for sticking with the company in the fragile post-IPO period. Or, this move can be seen as King Digital waving the white flag on innovation. And while many companies like Apple and IBM have taken some heat for buying back tons of stock, or not buying back enough, these are both mature companies that make billions of dollars a year. King Digital, by contrast, has only been public for a few months, and on Thursday reported quarterly gross bookings that declined by more than $100 million, or more than 16%, year-over-year.  Back in August, I had an in-office debate with former Business Insider editor Joe Weisenthal, who thinks this is a great idea and wrote as much on Thursday. Joe thinks that King investing money in R&amp;D would be like a "lottery winner spending the winnings on more tickets."  Not a bad analogy. But if this is the corporate strategy, then why go public at all? Certainly management is going to want to instill confidence in investors that it is — and still can — grow the business. In its earnings release on Thursday, King Digital's CEO Riccardo Zacconi said, "We have a consistent track record of developing successive hit games." And there is no doubt that "Candy Crush" has been a massive hit.  But there are two metrics in the company's earnings report that are worth taking a closer look at. In the third quarter, monthly gross average bookings per paying user increased 26% over the prior year. So people who were paying for stuff in King Digital's games spent more in the quarter. This is good.  But monthly unique payers in the third quarter fell 33% from last year and 17% from the prior quarter. So fewer people were paying for stuff. This is bad. King said, "We believe the sequential decline in [Monthly Unique Payers] was primarily a result of reduced payment activity among the less engaged payers on the network." Whether or not this is the case will be seen in future quarters, but in a high-growth sector like mobile gaming, does a company want to be trading revenue for users over the long term? Now, a quick look at the company's balance sheet, and the $150 million buyback doesn't appear to be all that big a deal. As of now, the company hasn't said it will need to raise debt to execute the buyback, and even if it uses most all of its net profit to buyback shares, the company still had $976 million in cash and equivalents at the end of the quarter.  So theoretically, the company could use that cash to invest in new games, new technology, or to buy another company (or maybe to buyback more stock!).  And pull up a quick stock chart, and investors who bought shares near the IPO have had a tough couple months, so if you are making money, why not reward shareholders? Perhaps King Digital is setting a new standard for how companies reward shareholders, even before they become what investors might consider "mature" companies.  Or perhaps King is finding a way to make sure their shareholders stay, well, their shareholders.  FREE AppDownload
Chris Keane/ReutersBank of America CEO Brian Moynihan.Bank of America has revised down its third-quarter earnings by $400 million amid a currency probe that has forced it to add to its legal reserves. The bank had reported a loss of 1 cent a share last month, with a net income of $168 million. Revenue came in at $21.4 billion. Analysts had expected it to be worse, with a loss of 9 cents a share. This downward revision puts the bank at a loss of 4 cents a share and takes its net income down to a loss of $232 million. Citi also revised down its earnings to boost legal reserves. In a government filing, JPMorgan Chase said its coming legal issues could cost it between zero and $6 billion. Check out the press release below: CHARLOTTE, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Nov. 6, 2014-- Bank of America Corporation today announced an adjustment to its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2014 to include additional litigation expense related to its foreign exchange business. Subsequent to the company’s earnings announcement on October 15, and prior to the filing of the company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2014, the company has been engaged in separate advanced discussions with certain U.S. banking regulatory agencies to resolve matters related to its foreign exchange business. As a result of those discussions, the company recorded a $400 million non-deductible charge and adjusted its third-quarter 2014 financial results to a net loss of $232 million or $(0.04) per share. There can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of these matters. The company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is being filed today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, will reflect the adjustment. Forward-looking StatementsCertain statements in this news release represent the current expectations, plans or forecasts of Bank of America based on available information and are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements often use words like “expects,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “targets,” “intends,” “plans,” “predict,” “goal” and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “may,” “might,” “should,” “would” and “could.” Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and Bank of America undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date the forward-looking statement was made. These statements are not guarantees of future results or performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict and are often beyond Bank of America's control. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, any forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement and should consider all of the uncertainties and risks discussed under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” of Bank of America's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 and in any of Bank of America's other subsequent Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Bank of AmericaBank of America is one of the world's largest financial institutions, serving individual consumers, small businesses, middle-market businesses and large corporations with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and other financial and risk management products and services. The company provides unmatched convenience in the United States, serving approximately 48 million consumer and small business relationships with approximately 4,900 retail banking offices and approximately 15,700 ATMs and award-winning online banking with 31 million active users and more than 16 million mobile users. Bank of America is among the world's leading wealth management companies and is a global leader in corporate and investment banking and trading across a broad range of asset classes, serving corporations, governments, institutions and individuals around the world. Bank of America offers industry-leading support to approximately 3 million small business owners through a suite of innovative, easy-to-use online products and services. The company serves clients through operations in more than 40 countries. Bank of America Corporation stock (NYSE: BAC) is listed on the New York Stock Exchange.   FREE AppDownload
 So King Digital, the company that makes "Candy Crush," just announced a $150 million share buyback. That's the lion's share of the $177 million that the company made in the quarter. You can read the earnings announcement here.  Anyway, this isn't the first time that King (which hasn't been public very long) has returned cash to shareholders. Back in August, the company announced a one-time $150 million dividend, catching investors by surprise.  King's strategy makes a lot of sense. Its premier game, "Candy Crush," is an absolute cash-gusher. And the margins are enormous. Almost all the revenue is profit, because the game already exists and what they sell is virtual. Unfortunately, "Candy Crush" isn't an easily repeatable phenomenon. Yes, they've developed other games and impressively, "Candy Crush" is now only 41% of the company's revenue, but it's still a unique phenomenon. It'd be foolhardy for the company to plow its cash back into R&amp;D, as that would be like a lottery winner spending the winnings on more tickets. My old colleague @jyarow asked on Twitter, why bother even being public then? The answer is that being public is a nice way to lock in ("monetize") a massive (but uncertain) stream of future cash flows. I think of King Digital as kind of like being a small oil sands company in Canada. If you're sitting on a huge future stream of oil, it's a smart move to sell off the future cash flows it spins off, rather than, A, wait for all the cash to come in and collect it or, B, hope to strike (black) gold again via speculative drilling. So yeah, it's weird to see a young mobile tech company paying massive dividends. But it's absolutely the right move. This post was originally published on Ello. It is republished with permission. For more from Mr. Weisenthal, follow him on Ello. NOW WATCH: 8 Tips For Google Search That Will Streamline Nearly Everything You Do    FREE AppDownload
Mexico's economy is one of the bright spots in Latin America right now, but recent forecasts continue to revise down just how much it is growing. Growth estimates for this year continue to decrease. The latest number is 2.3%, reported by the Wall Street Journal today, down from a 2.5% forecast in September. At the start of the year, the government had forecasted 3.9% growth, according to Reuters, but then experienced a pretty terrible first half of the year. Growth has been moderately good in the third quarter, but not great. It should be said that even 2% growth is better than a lot of countries in Central and South America. At last week's meeting, the Banco de Mexico announced interest rates would remain unchanged at 3%, citing new signs of weakness in the global economy. In a note to clients this week, UBS wrote, "Contrary to most countries in the region, Mexico's economy is on a clear upswing and closely tied to the United States. But a failure to implement capital spending effectively by the government has led to lower than expected growth this year, a phenomenon that we think will still weigh on the economy in 2015." FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderElm Grove, Wisconsin is the best suburb in America.We recently published The 50 Best Suburbs In America, and Elm Grove, Wisconsin, was ranked the best suburb in America.  For this list we looked at over 300 suburbs with populations between 5,000 and 100,000, and factored in things like average commute time, median household income, poverty and crime rates, public school ratings, and housing affordability. Elm Grove may be small, with a population of just 5,934 residents, but it has excellent schools, almost no crime, and is fairly wealthy, with a median household income of $109,993. Residents can make the quick 20-minute trip to downtown Milwaukee, or head 15 minutes west to Lake Country — a popular summer getaway with outdoor activities like boating, biking, and camping.  The Village Of Elm GroveThe Village of Elm Grove awards homes with beautiful gardens and lawns.The city, nicknamed "The Grove," takes its parks — and its environment — seriously: It earned the state title of "Bird City," which means that the city is committed to making its environment thrive for birds, wildlife, and people.  Elm Grove shares schools with its neighboring town, Brookfield. However, unlike Brookfield, Elm Grove does not have any mega-chain-stores. Instead, residents shop at local stores, like John's Great Harvest, a famous bread store that appears at local farmers markets and attracts people from all over the region for its freshly baked breads. Several new local businesses recently opened in the downtown area, including Fazio's Sweet Moments Sweet Life, a gourmet chocolatier, and Sparkle Spa, a skin care spa owned by local resident Laura Robinson. The town also has two staple hangouts: RJ's Ice Cream for kids, and O'Donoghue's Irish Pub for adults. There's also a strong sense of community, with year-round events that bring the town together. "We are a community of volunteers and good neighbors," Village President Neil Palmer said. "We are a community of families, Memorial Day parades, bike decorating contests, library story hours, charity raffles, Fourth of July celebrations, and beautiful trees and gardens." In 1966 the town established the Elm Grove Junior Guild, which relies 100% on town volunteers to put together the annual Easter Egg Hunt, Memorial Day Parade, Fourth of July Games, Safety Village, the Children’s Halloween Party, and Breakfast with Santa.  And residents seem to love it so much that they never leave. Rebekah Schaefer grew up in Elm Grove and later moved back to the area to raise her own family, which she says is very common.  "Our children live at Village Park's pool in the summer and decorate their bikes for the annual Memorial Day Parade, just like we did years ago," Schaefer said. "Many kids I grew up with are residents who purchased their childhood homes from their parents." FREE AppDownload
Associated PressDisney just reported Q4 earnings that beat expectations by a penny. The entertainment giant reported earnings per share, excluding certain items, of $0.89 against expectations for $0.88. Revenue totaled $12.38 billion against expectations for $12.37 billion.  In a release, Disney said the increase in diluted EPS was, "due to improved performance at all of our operating segments, a decrease in the weighted average shares outstanding as a result of our share repurchase program and higher investment gains." In the fourth quarter, operating income in Disney's cable networks unit fell $10 million, which Disney said was attributable to higher programming costs at ESPN which was partially offset by affiliate revenue and ad revenue. Studio entertainment revenue in the fourth quarter rose 18% to $1.8 billion, and the company said higher worldwide theatrical distribution results were due to the success of Guardians of the Galaxy and Maleficent in the current quarter compared to Monsters University and The Lone Ranger in the prior-year quarter. Disney also reported its full-year results, with earnings per share that came in at $4.26 against $3.38 for the prior year on sales of $48.8 billion against $45 billion a year ago.  In after hours trade following the results, Disney shares were down about 1%. You can read Disney's full release here » FREE AppDownload
Tavern on the Green has been ripped to shreds since it reopened earlier this year. The classic New York restaurant was panned by critics for being boring and complacent in a city where the culinary arts are blood sport. Eater's Ryan Sutton said that if you go to Tavern, "you'll have spent $32 on what is surely one the worst things anyone can eat outside of Rikers." Desperate times call for desperate measures. Tavern on the Green has hired legendary chef Jeremiah Tower out of retirement in Mexico to helm the restaurant. He told Toqueland that he wants to make the food more like April Bloomfield's red hot restaurant, The Breslin. It's also said that he prepared five dishes in just seven minutes during his interview. Tower, along with Wolfgang Puck and others, is known for being one of the founders of "California cuisine" culinary style back in the 1980s.  He's also known for wild antics that make Anthony Bourdain look like Julia Child. Grub Street did an amazing roundup of ten tales from Tower's drug addled, rock star days. He once flew an employee to Paris just to prove how wonderful French chicken is. At Harvard, where he got his undergrad and graduate degrees, he used to make famous marijuana consommé, which contained "chicken stock, fresh basil, sea salt, pepper, and '1 packed cup marijuana stems and seeds." And then there's this (from Grub Street): Menus for themed dinners got more and more unhinged as the drugs and free love took hold at Chez Panisse. One of the best: a "drugged and sodomized" leg of lamb injected with a syringe of Madeira and tangerine juice. Tower reportedly refused to address one customer's complaint over another leg of lamb, which resulted in an intimidated waiter returning to the dining room and delivering this line: "The chef says to tell you, 'Tough sh-t.'" So at least it won't be boring in Tavern's kitchen. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonTraders laugh as they work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange as the market closes in New York.Stocks gained ground to make new all-time closing highs on Thursday, with the Dow now over 17,500 for the first time and the S&amp;P 500 climbing north of 2,028. These gains came on the final day before Friday's October US jobs report, the first since the Federal Reserve ended its QE program last week.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Thursday: 1. The European Central Bank announced its latest monetary policy decision on Thursday, keeping interest rates unchanged. ECB president Mario Draghi also held a press conference following the announcement, and as he did in October, reiterated that the ECB would look to expand its balance sheet back to 2012 levels. Draghi also added that ECB officials are "unanimous" in pushing for more monetary stimulus if it's needed. Following the announcement and Draghi's commentary, the euro plunged against the dollar.  2. In the US, the latest report on weekly jobless claims showed that claims fell to 278,000 from last week's 287,000. The four-week moving average of claims also fell further, to 279,000, the lowest level since this average was at 273,000 in April 2000. This latest labor market update comes ahead of Friday's big jobs report, which is expected to show the economy added 235,000 jobs in October, and you can read Business Insider's full preview from Shane Ferro here.  3. Oil prices fell again, this time as OPEC released its latest World Oil Outlook which showed that demand is likely to fall through 2017. OPEC's report also showed that, in 2013 dollars, oil prices are expected to fall through 2035.  4. One of the biggest stock losers on Thursday was Genworth Financial, which fell more than 38% after the company reported a quarterly loss of more than $800 million, largely related to a reevaluation of the company's long-term care insurance unit.  5. Apple earlier this week raised euro-denominated debt, and this debt is yielding considerably less than US government bonds. 6. Kate Spade shares went bonkers on Thursday, rising more than 17% after the company reported US sales that grew 36% during the quarter.  7. An afternoon report from Reuters said that a number of "high-profile" brokers have been leaving Merrill Lynch's wealth management unit and executives at the firm's Bank of America parent company have begun asking Merrill Lynch head John Thiel to explain the departures.  Don't Miss: A Full List Of Companies That Allegedly Have Shady Tax Deals With Luxembourg » FREE AppDownload
There's a standoff happening between the old oil powers and the booming US shale industry, as the OPEC oil cartel is thought to be pushing down prices to drive new production offline. But the investment bank Citi says it's not a fight that OPEC leader Saudi Arabia is going to win. Although no one is sure what is causing the plunge in oil prices from above $105 a barrel this summer to below $80, Saudi Arabia, which helps control oil prices through the amount its vast oil reserves it releases to the market, would reportedly "be comfortable with lower oil prices." Meanwhile, there's a risk that low prices will make it unfeasible to continue expensive unconventional drilling projects that are spreading through US shale basins. But a massive new report, "The Rapid Rise of the United States as a Global Energy Superpower," from Citi's macro analysts suggests the price of oil would have to dip to the vicinity of $50 a barrel to flatten US production growth completely.  From the report: "[I]ndications have emerged that suggest Saudi Arabia could look to allow prices to fall enough until US shale production is reined in. However, should such a circumstance arise, it looks like US shale/tight oil production growth could remain robust even in an environment of sustained lower oil prices, lower capex, and lower rig counts." The breakeven price for a well depends on a variety of factors. In places where the drilling infrastructure is mature and there's not a lot of upfront capital costs to bring on a new well, breakeven prices are going to be a lot lower than in newer developing areas. Here's a key passage:  At what price might US shale production growth be meaningfully reined in? Full-cycle capex for shale production includes land, infrastructure, and well costs (of which some 40-50% is from pumps, ~10-15% for drilling rigs) and operating costs. In mature plays where the land grab is over and infrastructure is available, the remaining capex required (“half-cycle costs”) to bring on an additional well is far lower than areas requiring “full-cycle” costs. Full-cycle costs might be as high as $70-80/bbl WTI, but half-cycle costs could be as low as the high $30s-range. Thus, those fringe and emerging areas requiring full-cycle capex could now face a reassessment, while established areas should continue drilling and growing output. And here's a group of charts showing the breakeven prices for a well in various areas of the US shale production region: CitiCiti's estimation of shale breakeven prices for various well scenarios. What if WTI prices go below $70 a barrel (it was below $78 at last check)? Citi predicts a slowdown (about a 25% reduction in growth in 2015 and 50% in 2016) but not a halt to US shale production. What happens to the US economy if production does take a hit because of falling prices?  A recent Goldman Sachs note looked at that. Here's what we wrote previously: On the one hand, falling crude prices mean falling gas prices, which means a boost to consumer spending in other parts of the economy. On the other, shale production in the US will most likely fall, reducing exports and reducing business spending in that area of the economy. Goldman thinks the two would roughly cancel each other out, predicting that GDP would decline just 0.1% as a result of this turn of events. In 2013, capital investment by the oil and gas industry was $167 billion. That's 11% of business fixed investment and 1% of GDP, according to Goldman. The note says that at the height of shale investment, in 2010 and 2011, this sector added as much as 0.2% to annualized real GDP growth. But it has since "declined to an unremarkable pace." Even with falling prices, investment in the oil sector in the US isn’t necessarily going to fall off a cliff. From Goldman’s Alec Phillips: It is important to note that a good deal of capital investment in the energy sector is used to maintain rather than increase production, since the production from existing wells is constantly declining, so even if US production were expected to remain flat over the coming year — we still expect it to grow substantially — significant investment would still be necessary. All told, it plays into Citi's bull case for US oil. Here's how the bank sees America becoming an oil exporter: ir.citi.com Saudi Arabia can't keep prices low forever. The Kingdom may tolerate low oil prices in the short run, but the oil power wants prices at about $100 a barrel. As RBC Capital Markets' Helima Croft noted recently: Due to a surge in post Arab Spring spending, we believe that the Saudi government actually needs oil prices north of $100 a barrel in order to balance its budget, and if Brent prices remain in the $80s, it will be forced to run a deficit ... A significant portion of the new social spending has also been aimed at keeping Saudi’s large youth cohort occupied and away from extremist groups ... In the wake of the 2003 terrorist attacks in Riyadh carried out by nationals, King Abdullah identified youth unemployment as the country’s number one national security challenge ... We maintain that the King would not sacrifice domestic and regional stability in order to punish Iran and Russia or bankrupt US shale producers. Here's the latest oil production table from Wikipedia: en.wikipedia.org And here's a look at countries by proven oil reserves: en.wikipedia.org FREE AppDownload
Crashing oil prices are bad news for the world's big oil producers, in particular Saudi Arabia. In a new note to clients, RBC Capital Markets' Helima Croft writes that falling prices come as violence spikes in the country. "There have been several alarming security incidents in Saudi Arabia this week, raising fresh concerns about extremism in the Kingdom," she writes. "All is not well." Croft notes that the Saudi government needs higher prices to help fund programs that keep young people busy. "Due to a surge in post Arab Spring spending, we believe that the Saudi government actually needs oil prices north of $100 a barrel in order to balance its budget, and if Brent prices remain in the $80s, it will be forced to run a deficit," Kroft writes. "A significant portion of the new social spending has also been aimed at keeping Saudi’s large youth cohort  occupied and away from extremist groups ... In the wake of the 2003 terrorist attacks in Riyadh carried out by nationals, King Abdullah identified youth unemployment as the country’s number one national security challenge." Earlier this month, Saudi Aramco announced it was cutting the price of oil it was selling to the US, a move intended to make Saudi oil more competitive with the oil US producer are fracking from America's shale basins. Kroft believes, however, these moves will be limited in scope as suppressing prices is bad for business and consumer sentiment in the kingdom. Oil revenue funds an estimated 80-90% of the Saudi government's budget, so people notice when prices fall. "We maintain that the King would not sacrifice domestic and regional stability in order to punish Iran and Russia or bankrupt US shale producers," she writes. Bottom line: Saudi Arabia is in a very tricky situation. "With thousands of young Saudis reportedly filling the ranks of ISIS, concerns about the country’s restless youth are likely taking on added urgency in security circles." RBC Capital Markets FREE AppDownload
Marc Angeles for Coldwell BankerWelcome to the Palazzo di Amore.There is no shortage of over-the-top mansions around the country. But the Beverly Hills estate of real estate mogul Jeff Greene, which just hit the market with a price tag of $195 million — making it the new most expensive home for sale in the US — is in a league of its own. Known as the "Palazzo di Amore," Greene's home was built for parties. It has an entertainment complex and ballroom that can fit 250 guests, a private-label vineyard, and parking garages for more than two dozen cars. Greene, who made a fortune when the real estate bubble burst, is worth some $2.2 billion. With its $195 million listing price, his home is by far the most expensive on the market, beating a Florida home currently listed at $139 million. Joyce Rey and Stacy Gottula of Coldwell Banker Previews International have the listing.
Until recently, the last time I drank boxed wine was in college when "slap the bag” was an acceptable party game and everyone’s goal was to get as drunk as possible.  Needless to say my memories of boxed wine were not the best. But on a recent liquor store trip, I was intrigued by a good-looking box of wine. On the side of the box it claimed that it had three liters or four standard bottles-worth of wine, and that it would keep for over a month. It sounded too good to be true, but my frugal curiosity got the best of me. And it was actually delicious. Aside from the taste, I loved that I could have a casual glass without the pressure to finish an entire bottle. It helped that it cost about $20 for four bottles worth of wine, too. Since then, I’ve tried a variety of boxed wines. Black Box, Wineberry, Bota Box, Trader Joe’s, and more, all with approximately four bottles of wine in a thick food-grade plastic bag. And I’ve learned one really important thing: We should all be drinking more boxed wine. The fact that more people don’t drink boxed wine in America stems from our own cultural biases. Other areas of the world are much more liberal with how they partake: 50% of the wine sold in Australia, Brazil, Sweden, and Norway for example is boxed wine, according to Wines &amp; Vines magazine. The Grape Vine Magazine reported that boxed wine is one of the fastest growing wine segments in the world with sales increasing 20% every year since 2000. And even though boxed wine only accounts for 18% of sales in America, that could all be changing. “The US wine market is growing tremendously and we’re developing a taste for wine,” Steffan Bankier, co-founder and CEO of the boxed wine brand Public House, told Business Insider. “People are starting to put good wine in the box, realizing that there are lots of benefits. Our generation is also rejecting anything that’s overly expensive, wasteful, or bad for the environment.” publichousewine/InstagramPublic House also provides glasses with every box.Even if you’re a wine snob, there are simply too many benefits to ignore the growing market.  First of all, it stores better — and longer — than regular opened wine. After pouring your first glass, boxed wine will stay fresh between six and eight weeks while your average bottle of red or white wine lasts less than a week once it’s been opened. The plastic bag keeps the air out and prevents oxidation until the wine has been dispensed into your glass, unlike a bottle which lets air in immediately after uncorking.  Boxed wine also generates less waste. You don’t have to toss out wine that has gone bad, plus there’s less packaging since four bottles-worth of wine can fit inside one box. The packaging is also more durable than a bottle. Glass is heavy and can easily break, but food-grade plastic and cardboard transport safely and don’t take up much space. Because the packaging is lighter-weight than glass bottles, when the wine travels across the country there’s less of a carbon footprint, too. And because it can’t break as easily, is more light-weight, and is easy to transport, it’s better for on-the-go social settings. “It’s really convenient to carry. There’s a lot of places where they don’t allow you to have glass on rooftops, grassy areas, on the beach, and so on,” Jordan Gutman, co-founder and President of Public House, said. “Boxed wine naturally allows for that.” All of this means that boxed wine ends up being cheaper. Prices typically range from $13 (Trader Joe’s) to $40 after tax for three liter boxed wines, and that’s not even including Tetra Pak options which are essentially adult juice boxes with a bottle and a half of wine inside (Bandit and French Rabbit are popular brands for those interested). “The consumer right now pays so much for the bottles through shipping and packaging that it’s just unnecessary,” Gutman told me. “Our wine is such a better value. The average consumer is going to save about 40% just on the wine when they purchase a boxed wine simply because of the packaging.”  Megan Willett/Business InsiderMe IRL last night.I’m not a complete convert to boxed wine yet. I’ve continued to buy bottles to bring to dinner parties and friend’s houses and I still enjoy a high-quality wine as a splurge.   It’s also worth noting that the only two areas boxed wine really falls short are perception (I’d never give boxed wine as a hostess gift, for example) and in the vintage market since boxed wine doesn’t age like bottled wine can (boxed wine can keep 6-8 months for unopened whites and 10-13 months for unopened reds). So if you’re a wine snob and you can only drink the best of the best, ignore my advice. Get all the expensive vintages you want and fill up that pretentious wine cellar of yours.  But for the rest of us, when it comes to day-to-day wine to drink with dinner, give boxed wine a chance. FREE AppDownload
Pixabay via Google ImagesThe average American household will save just around $42 per month over the next year if gas prices stay low. RBC Capital Markets made this estimate by calculating the average miles driven per vehicle in the US, and how much gasoline all passenger cars (excluding larger trucks) use every year. Then they judge that the average car goes about 22 miles/gallon, amounting to nearly 127 billion gallons of gas bought every year. "Assuming $0.46 is saved per gallon of gas (or $0.28 cents if you wanted to simply look at YOY trends), this would amount to ~$58 billion on an annualized basis," RBC's Scot Ciccarelli wrote in a note. "When we spread that savings across roughly 115 million households in the US, it should amount to just over $40/month or $500 per household on an annualized basis (assuming prices remain where they are for the next 12 months)." They break down the math in this table: RBC Capital Markets The benefit of an extra $41.95, or any saving for that matter, should be considered relative to income. So people with lower incomes will feel the most benefit.  Retailers that cater to low-income customers will see the most of these savings, RBC said. Dollar stores could especially gain, since $40 can bring home 40 extra grocery items. Auto retailers will also benefit, as people will have more spare dollars to spend on undone car maintenance, RBC noted. Gas prices have fallen with crude prices to around four-year lows around the country, and the national average was $2.963 per gallon on Wednesday. FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - A number of high-profile brokers have left Bank of America Corp's Merrill Lynch wealth management unit in recent weeks, and top executives at the company have grown concerned enough to ask business head John Thiel to explain the departures, three sources familiar with the matter told Reuters. Among those who have exited are top-producing brokers like Brian and Tim Brice, who oversaw around $4.5 billion in client assets in a suburb of Detroit, and whose father had also worked for Merrill. The brothers had been with Merrill Lynch for decades, before joining Morgan Stanley in September. Raymond George, a 23-year veteran of Merrill Lynch, has also left. George joined Morgan Stanley’s office in Garden City, New York in October. Eugene Montoya, who had been at Merrill for more than 40 years, decamped in September for Wells Fargo Advisors’ office in Miami. The Brice brothers declined to comment through a Morgan Stanley spokesman. George did not return a call seeking comment, and a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley declined to comment on his departure. Montoya did not return a call and an email seeking comment. Bank of America Chief Executive Brian Moynihan and Vice Chairman David Darnell have both asked Thiel to account for the trend of recent departures, the sources said. In an emailed statement, Darnell told Reuters, "John (Thiel) is doing exactly what Brian (Moynihan) and I need him to do." Thiel did not return two calls seeking comment. David Walker, a spokesman for Merrill Lynch’s wealth management business, told Reuters in an emailed statement, "The facts are that advisor attrition is at historic lows and our business has never been stronger. Our results, by every measure, show we’re headed in the right direction." The brokers represent a relatively small percentage of the bank's 14,000-strong force, and it's unclear why they left.  Rumblings from inside the bank, however, indicate a significant cultural shift, helmed by Thiel. Fox Business' Charles Gasparino reported that instead of beer and wine, brokers are being served wheat grass shots and getting lectures about meditation. Thiel has also told brokers that they should find their "noble purpose." It doesn't help that he's also reshuffled the top ranks within the business. Bank of America purchased Merril Lynch's brokerage business in 2008, and it looks like so far the marriage has been an unhappy one. The two cultures aren't in sync. This could also also be part of a wider trend, though, as brokers have been leaving big banks to strike out on their own for years. Brokers heading to the independent channel have been increasing while the number of brokers at big banks has remained flat since the financial crisis. While Merrill said it managed to gain 155 brokers on a net basis in the third quarter, sources said that in recent weeks the bank has been losing more brokers than it gained. In one week in October, 13 left and just one joined, one of the sources said.   Two of the sources familiar with the matter added that many of the brokers who departed had spent the majority of their careers at Merrill, while two-thirds of the additions in the third quarter were relatively inexperienced graduates of Merrill’s training program. Wealth management is one of the few areas where Wall Street banks are looking to expand or at least to hang onto staff, because the business produces relatively stable returns. Also, more clients with assets of at least $250,000 left Merrill Lynch than joined during the third quarter, one of the sources said. Merrill's Walker said the bank has had a net gain of clients with at least $1 million of assets so far this year. He declined to give data for the third quarter for clients with $250,000 of assets or more. Walker added that average production of brokers the bank attracted since the start of the year is “substantially higher” than those brokers who have left.     FREE AppDownload
We recently looked at the most unequal cities in America. Here's a different way to look at inequality data. The Census Bureau used data from their 2008-2012 American Community Survey to estimate various measures of income inequality. One of the most common inequality measures is the Gini Index. This is a number between 0 and 1 that indicates how far an area's income distribution is from a completely flat distribution. A totally equal distribution, in which everyone has the same income, has a Gini Index of 0, and a completely unequal distribution, in which one person has all the income and everyone else gets nothing, would have an index of 1. The higher an area's Gini Index, the more unequal that area. Using the Census Bureau's estimates, we found the place (as defined by the Census Bureau here) with at least 5,000 residents with the largest Gini Index, and thus the most income inequality: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from 2008-2012 American Community Survey There are a couple interesting patterns on the map. Along with traditional enclaves of wealth like Greenwich, CT and Beverly Hills, CA, a large number of college towns also make an appearance, like West Lafayette, IN (home of Purdue University), and Athens, OH (home of Ohio University). FiveThirtyEight's Ben Casselman pointed out in a post earlier this year that the fact that many college students either don't work or are working only part time means that, by the Census Bureau's measures, they have very low incomes. This winds up skewing measures of income distribution and income inequality for places with large numbers of students. The percentage of college and postgraduate students in the population was higher than 20% in 20 out of the 50 towns on our list, and so this skew may have a big effect. Here's each of the towns, along with their Gini Indexes, and the income shares for opposite ends of the income distribution: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from 2008-2012 American Community Survey We also made an alternate ranking, looking only at non-college towns, or places where less than 20% of residents were college or graduate students. Towns that were are new to this list are shown below in blue: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from 2008-2012 American Community Survey
ReutersAlwaleed Bin Talal, the Saudi prince who is suing Forbes for defamation after a dispute over his net worth, has already spent £1.4 million ($2.2 million) on legal fees, according to the FT. The self-proclaimed Warren Buffet of Saudi Arabia cut ties with Forbes last year after they released their 2013 billionaires ranking and listed him at $20bn. He claims he was worth $29.6bn. But in a preliminary hearing at London's High Court on Tuesday, Alwaleed's lawyer said that his billionaire ranking had nothing to do with the lawsuit. Instead, Alwaleed is suing the publication for defamation over allegations that he manipulated the share price of his investment fund, Kingdom Holding Company, and for claiming that he purposefully defaulted on an Airbus 380 payment. (Buying and refurbishing commercial airplanes is a bit of a hobby for the Prince.) Forbes writer Kerry Dolan said Alwaleed called her at home after the 2013 list was released and pleaded with her, asking, "'What do you want?'" The FT said the libel trial could begin as soon as next year. FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - A Texas man who operated Bitcoin Savings and Trust was charged on Thursday with bilking his investors, in what prosecutors called the first federal criminal securities fraud case arising from a bitcoin-related Ponzi scheme. Trendon Shavers, 32, of McKinney, Texas, was charged with misappropriating about 146,000 of the 764,000 bitcoin, then worth more than $4.5 million, that he raised from September 2011 to September 2012, U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan said. Bitcoin is a virtual currency that trades on the Internet, without the backing of any government or central bank. The criminal case follows a Sept. 18 order by a federal judge in Texas that Shavers and his company pay a total of $40.7 million comprising illegal profit, interest and fines in a related U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission civil lawsuit. Known online as "pirateat40," Shavers allegedly gained control of as much as 7 percent of the bitcoin market by promising investors up to 7 percent weekly interest, or 3,641 percent annualized, based on his ability to trade the currency. Instead, Shavers allegedly used new bitcoin to repay old investors, add to his account at the now-bankrupt Mt. Gox exchange, and fund expenses such a used BMW M5, casino visits and a $1,000 dinner at Gallagher's Steakhouse in Las Vegas. About half the investors in Bitcoin Savings and Trust lost some or all of their investments, prosecutors said. "Trendon Shavers managed to combine financial and cyber fraud into a bitcoin Ponzi scheme that offered absurdly high interest payments, and ultimately cheated his investors out of their bitcoin investments," Bharara said in a statement. "This case, the first of its kind, should serve as a warning to those looking to make a quick buck with unsecured currency." Shavers was arrested at his home on Thursday and charged with securities fraud and wire fraud. If convicted, he faces up to 20 years in prison and a fine on the securities fraud count. He is expected to appear on Thursday in U.S. District Court in Sherman, Texas, and on Nov. 14 in federal court in Manhattan after the case is transferred. Shavers' lawyer could not immediately be identified. The federal public defender's office in Sherman had no immediate comment. Shavers did not immediately respond to an email request for comment. His ability to pay the SEC judgment is unclear. The cases are U.S. v. Shavers, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 14-mag-02465; and SEC v. Shavers et al, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas, No. 13-00416. (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
 New Jersey resident Joe Lentini is furious at Atlantic City's Bobby Flay Steak after the restaurant charged him $3,750 for a bottle of wine. First reported by NJ.com's Bamboozled column writer Karin Price Mueller, Lentini went to a business dinner at the Borgata Hotel Casino &amp; Spa restaurant. The host encouraged Lentini to pick out the wine, so he asked the waitress if she could help. "I don't know much about wine at all," Lentini told NJ.com. "I asked the waitress if she could recommend something decent because I don't have experience with wine. She pointed to a bottle on the menu. I didn't have my glasses. I asked how much and she said, 'Thirty-seven fifty.'" Lentini assumed the waitress meant $37.50. Everyone around the table agreed to the price, and they ordered the wine. But the bottle of Screaming Eagle Oakville 2011 wine that she had pointed to wasn’t $37.50 — it was $3,750, and one of the priciest wines on the 24-page menu. After dinner, news of the actual price of the wine quickly spread. With appetizers, a seafood tower, lamb chop, and two NY strip steaks, the total bill ended up being $4,700, including tax. The maitre d’ was called over and said he could bring the cost of the wine down to $2,200 (wine for this vintage typically ranges between $1,000 and $2,000). Though Lentini said he couldn’t afford that price either, the other diners agreed to split the bill so they could leave. The Borgata told NJ.com that it had done nothing wrong and that all the proper practices were followed. "As the leading culinary destination in this region, we consistently serve as many, if not more high-end wine and spirits without incident," executive vice president Joseph Lupo told Mueller. "In this isolated case, both the server and sommelier verified the bottle requested with the patron." Not only that, but the host of the party — who declined to be named — said he knew the price of the bottle but that by the time he had figured it out the bottle was already open and “possibly empty." As for whether the wine was worth it, Lentini said: "It was OK. It was good. It wasn't great. It wasn't terrible. It was fine." Next time he should order from the "Top 50 under $50" section on the Bobby Flay Steak wine list (“Stimulate your taste buds without breaking the bank!”). FREE AppDownload
This could be bad news for John Paulson.  Shares of the insurance company Genworth crashed after the company reported an $844 million loss. The stock was last trading at $8.98, down $5.09, or 36.1%.  John Paulson's Paulson &amp; Co. was the largest hedge fund shareholder of Genworth, with 9 million shares, or a 1.81% stake, according to the most recent 13-F data compiled by Bloomberg.  According to our calculations, that means Paulson could have lost $45.9 million on his position since Wednesday's close.  Of course, the 13-F data is dated. It is representative of his stake as of June 30. He could have done anything with that position since that time, but we won't find out until the next 13-F filings come out later this month.  Bloomberg News previously reported that Paulson first bought 8.4 million shares of Genworth in early 2013 with an average cost of $7.67. He also gave it a price target of $24 earlier this year in an investor letter, according to that Bloomberg report.  A spokesperson for Paulson declined to comment.  FREE AppDownload
Burger King is winning during a difficult time for fast-food chains.  The company just posted its biggest quarterly sales gain in two years. While Burger King boosted North American sales by 3.6%, McDonald's plunged 3.3%.  Burger King has made a few smart decisions that are helping it win over McDonald's, writes Venessa Wong at Bloomberg Businessweek.  Morgan Stanley recently upgraded Burger King's shares to "overweight," citing positive trends in the business. The company's stock has risen 60% in the past year.  "The point isn’t to dwell on famously tough times at McDonald’s but to point out that while the burger business is indeed difficult, some chains are managing to succeed," Wong writes.  Here a few reasons Burger King is doing so well.  Cash-strapped Americans are increasingly unwilling to shell out for fast food.  Burger King has lured in customers with promotions like the two for $5 sandwich deal, Businessweek writes. The brand also started selling 10 chicken nuggets for $1.49.  To help offset the discounts, Burger King raised the prices of some items.  While McDonald's offered a promotion on free coffee, the higher price of burgers is a turnoff for consumers.  A Double Quarter Pounder with cheese, fries, and a drink now totals about $7.50 at some Chicago locations, Bloomberg reports.  That's too expensive for many customers, Leslie Patton writes. Burger KingBurger King's promotions, like 10 chicken nuggets for $1.49, are helping to drive sales. Burger King decided to focus on "fewer and more impactful products," chief executive Daniel Schwartz told analysts.  This strategy benefits Burger King because it simplifies operations in the kitchen, making service faster. It also means that franchisees aren't shelling out for a variety of products that potentially go to waste.  "Some products are just new permutations of things already in the kitchen," Wong writes. "The Rodeo Burger, for instance, is basically a standard burger with onion rings and barbecue sauce." McDonald's, meanwhile is struggling with a menu that has become too complicated.  CEO Don Thompson said the company is working on paring down the menu.  "We are streamlining our merchandising menu board and product offerings and in addition to making it easier for customer to order their favorite products, this will reduce complexity in our restaurants which in turn should enhance accuracy and speed of service," he told analysts earlier this year.  Burger King is on-track to remodel 40% of its restaurants by the end of 2015, boosting sales by as much as 10%, executives say.  McDonald's, which has a larger store footprint, "appears to be undergoing renovation at a slower rate," Wong writes.  By renovating stores with a modern feel, Burger King is able to better compete with fast-casual competitors like Chipotle.  While McDonald's has fallen on hard times, the average store still makes twice as much as Burger King restaurants.  FREE AppDownload
Luke MacGregor/Reuters   The modern gentleman knows more about the world than what he sees around him, or what he's experienced. That means the modern gentleman reads books — he collects knowledge. And he doesn't stop at the classics — he's also caught up with today's greatest literary works. We've put together a list of 'modern classic' books published after 1980 that examine society, politics, and love in the modern world. So go ahead, take a look at some of the greatest literature published in your lifetime. FREE AppDownload
Researchers at the FAA Center of Excellence at Purdue University created a simulation showing the mechanics of a sneeze in airplane cabins.  Animation courtesy of ANSYS. Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Follow BI Video: On Facebook  
Matt Taibbi has reemerged at Rolling Stone with the scathing 6,000-word story of a former JPMorgan Chase securities lawyer who tried to blow the whistle on massive crisis-era mortgage frauds going on at the bank, only to have the government begin to ignore the case after Jamie Dimon offered a $9 billion civil settlement last year. Alayne Fleischmann's story is familiar: As a diligence officer, she was privy to the fact that the bank was bundling mortgages they knew might go bad and selling them to investors as low-risk securities. She knew so much that she became a key witness for a criminal case that the US Department of Justice was mounting against the bank. And then, shortly before Eric Holder was scheduled to announce charges against the bank, Dimon made a call.  This is the heart of what Taibbi alleges, referring to Attorney General Eric Holder: "This past year she watched as Holder's Justice Department struck a series of historic settlement deals with Chase, Citigroup, and Bank of America. The root bargain in these deals was cash for secrecy."  The real crux of this story is that the Justice Department really does have enough to go after specific people for specific crimes committed leading up to the financial crisis and chooses to take giant cash settlements instead. No one has to admit they are guilty. The banks continue to exist as they are.  No banker suffers the unpleasantness of going to jail.  The ones to get punished, ironically, might be the whistleblowers.   Fleischmann, Taibbi makes clear, is under a confidentiality agreement. JPMorgan could bankrupt her by breaking it for this story. "The assumption they make is that I won't blow up my life to do it," Fleischmann tells Taibbi. "But they're wrong about that." For those who want a bit more, here's what you need to know:  Alayne Fleischmann is a Canadian woman who went to work as a securities lawyer on Wall Street after graduating from Cornell Law School. She ended up at JPMorgan in 2006 at the height of the housing market boom, working as a transaction manager ("a kind of quality control officer" for mortgages that got bundled together and sold off as securities to clients, Taibbi says).  After working at JPMorgan for a while, Fleischmann began noticing red flags. Her boss told her to stop putting mortgage-related stuff in writing. A package of old, cast-off mortgages with serious issues (about 40% of the borrowers were blatantly lying about their incomes on applications) was packaged and sold as a low-risk security. "... this was the very bottom of the mortgage barrel. They were like used cars that had been towed back to the lot after throwing a rod," Taibbi writes. By the time the security was sold, "the error rate in the pool [of mortgages] had magically dropped below 10 percent."   But we already knew the banks did this. But here is where Fleischmann brings something new to the table. After this, Fleischmann testified in a deposition that she went to a managing director, Greg Boester, and told him that the bank could not securitize the loans without a special disclosure about them (which would make them impossible to sell). In early 2007, she wrote a letter to William Buell, another MD, about the poor job that the bank was doing in its diligence.  She tells Taibbi: "It used to be if you wrote a memo, they had to stop, because now there's proof that they knew what they were doing. But when the Justice Department doesn't do anything, that stops being a deterrent. I just didn't know that at the time." In 2008, Fleischmann was laid off by the bank. Fast forward to 2012: Fleischmann got a call from the SEC. They wanted to talk about her time at JPMorgan, but after she talked to them they never followed up. But then she was interviewed by the US attorney's office in the Eastern District of California.  According to Taibbi: "She gave Elias [the head litigator on the case] and his team detailed information about everything she'd seen: the edict against e-mails, the sabotaging of the diligence process, the bullying, the written warnings that were ignored, all of it." This is when, according to Taibbi, Dimon picked up the phone and offered a civil settlement. It began when Holder's office scheduled a press conference for the morning of September 24th, 2013, to announce sweeping civil-fraud charges against the bank, all laid out in a detailed complaint drafted by the U.S. attorney's Sacramento office. But that morning the presser was suddenly canceled, and no complaint was filed. According to later news reports, Dimon had personally called Associate Attorney General Tony West, the third-ranking official in the Justice Department, and asked to reopen negotiations to settle the case out of court. JPMorgan and the Justice Department eventually settled for $13 billion, although Taibbi also says it was really only $9 billion. "... $4 billion of the settlement was largely an accounting falsehood, a chunk of bogus 'consumer relief' added to make the payoff look bigger." Consumer relief, he says, is not paid by the bank, but the investors in the mortgage securities. And even then it is paid only if the investors agree to it. The Justice Department's case is still technically open — at the end of the story, Taibbi mentions that a new set of investigators contacted Fleischmann over the summer, and she won't comment on the ongoing investigation. And the statute of limitations still hasn't run out for certain crimes, like wire fraud. A justice department official confirmed to Business Insider that the investigation is ongoing. JPMorgan declined to comment.  FREE AppDownload
According to Bloomberg News' Kelly Bit, Pershing Square is up 33% for the year. Pershing Square's performance was 0.7% in October, a wild month for the financial markets.  Overall, most fund managers have been struggling to find alpha this year. Meanwhile, the S&amp;P is up around 9.5%. Ackman is known for being a mostly long-only investor. He takes large positions in a handful of companies he thinks are undervalued and advocates for changes from management to unlock shareholder value. While he is mostly long, he is famously short Herbalife — a multilevel marketing company that sells weight-loss shakes. Ackman has been crusading against Herbalife for 23 months with a belief the company operates as a "pyramid scheme." He's betting the stock will fall to zero.  This year has also been a comeback for Ackman. In 2013, he had a disastrous bet in the embattled retailer J.C. Penney Co., and Herbalife's stock rose spectacularly. He finished that year slightly under 10%, while the S&amp;P rose 30%.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby Yip But the real benefit Apple got from raising that debt in Europe: a great interest rate.  In a note to clients following Apple's debt raise, analysts at RBC Capital Markets wrote that Apple's "borrowing cost on this raise is lower than US government bonds." Bond yields reflect, most simply, the risk that investors are being compensated for by lending an entity money. A lower yield implies a lower chance that a company will default or fail to pay back lenders, and a higher yield a higher chance of default. On eight-year notes issued in Europe, Apple's bonds will yield 1.082%, while 12-year notes will yield 1.671%.  US 10-year Treasury yields are currently at about 2.35%.  When companies raise debt, it is typically benchmarked off whatever local government bonds are yielding. All around the world government yields are low, but European bond yields are among the lowest in the world (except for Japan).  And so while Apple just launched the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus and the company is expected to launch Apple Watch next year, the company also finds ways to innovate financially.  RBC also notes that because Apple is a US-based entity, the company will "receive the proceeds in the US and will likely use a swap to convert the euros to [dollars]," which the firms sees as most likely giving Apple no repatriation issues. (When a company repatriates cash from overseas to the US, it pays taxes on it. Usually large ones.)  As Business Insider's Jay Yarow quipped after news first broke that Apple would raise debt in Europe: Can’t innovate any more, my ass! RT @themoneygame: Euro-denominated Apple bonds might be in the works http://t.co/xIRKxKRvz6 And here's how German and Swiss 10-years stack up to US 10-years. FRED FREE AppDownload
E!/"Rich Kids of Beverly Hills"The "Rich Kids of Beverly Hills" cast (from left): Roxy Sowalty, Jonny Drubel, Dorothy Wang, Morgan Stewart, and Brendan Fitzpatrick. Made up of six wealthy best friends from the 90210 zip code, "Rich Kids" was inspired by the popular and outrageous Tumblr "Rich Kids of Instagram," in which offspring of the super rich flaunt their yachts, diamonds, magnums of champagne, and more. hulu.com/E! Entertainment It was through this Tumblr that E! producers and casting directors found Dorothy Wang, the 26-year-old "funemployed" heiress to her father's $4 billion retail real estate fortune. Dorothy's dad, Roger Wang, founded the Golden Eagle International Group in Nanjing and turned it into one of the country's largest mall chains, with stores in 15 cities, according to Forbes. "When Rich Kids Of Instagram launched, I was one of the main people they featured on the site," Wang told Business Insider over the phone as she was sitting in L.A. traffic. "I was one of the first people they put on the Tumblr and then they kept putting me on it. So I was approached after producers at the network saw me on the Tumblr page and from there they asked me, 'Would you ever want to do a reality show?' and I responded, 'Honestly, I thought I was living a reality show the last seven years of my life. Thank God cameras are going to be there so I’m not just posing into thin air for myself.'" instagram.com/dorothywangDorothy Wang boarding a private jet in one of her many "fabuluxe" Instagram posts. Casting Dorothy — who says she had no idea of her family's wealth "until it was printed in Forbes" despite her collection of $10,000 Hermés Birkin bags so large she "lost count"— was easy, but E! needed a whole cast of people just as outgoing and unabashedly outrageous as the self-described "fabuluxe" University of Southern California graduate. instagram.com/boobsandloubs_"Rich Kids Of Beverly Hills" was initially called "The Morgan and Dorothy Project." In order to round out the cast, Dorothy says, "There wasn’t an open call or a casting for the show at all. They wanted Morgan and I to do a show so we brought in our friends and they picked the ones who are on the show now. So, all of these people who are coming out of the woodwork saying they auditioned for the show, I’m like, 'I was there, that’s not what happened.'" Instagram.com/Dorothy WangThe cast of "Rich Kids of Beverly Hills" are friends in real life, too. As with any reality show, the cast has conflicts with each other, but it's clear these friendships are real and have history that goes back further than when the cameras started rolling last year. The on-air conflicts haven't been enough to tear the group apart just yet. "I think we’ve all gotten a lot closer because it’s such a unique experience that has really taken over our lives and is our lives at the same time," explains Dorothy. "I have a lot of friends outside of the show, but sometimes I don’t want to put them through an hour of me talking about the show so I just hang out with Morgan and Roxy so we can talk about what’s going on." While Dorothy was on board to showcase her life for the public, adjusting to people's hateful comments online has taken some getting used to.  "I spent the first two weeks before and after the first episode aired basically crying and having anxiety attacks because it was so new to me," Dorothy admits. "But once the show progressed, we really saw a shift. People were like, 'Wait, we actually don’t hate you, we like you. You’re not annoying anymore.'" Before the show aired, Dorothy had 26,000 followers on Instagram. Today she has 561,000 followers and counting, as well as a new outlook on her haters. "Now when I do read the comments, I laugh at them," she says. "It’s crazy stuff like a person wanting to stab me in a back alley with a turkey leg. Sometimes they say the funniest things, we literally just read them out loud to each other. It’s funny to us now. I think we’ve all developed a much thicker skin." So what does Dorothy's influential dad think about his daughter's newfound reality show fame? "I literally waited until we had to sign our contracts to tell my family ... but when I told my dad he was the most supportive. He said, ‘I would never do it, but for someone like you, I think it’s something you will enjoy and be good at, and it’s something you can do a lot of things with. You have an interesting story to tell. Yes, you’re a rich kid, but you are also so much more and this would allow you to show that to the world.'"    FREE AppDownload
Kate Spade shares are soaring 19% after the company reported excellent sales results.  The company grew worldwide sales by 30% in the third quarter. US sales increased by 36%.  Kate Spade's sales growth is especially impressive because it was achieved without too many promotions or discounts, The Wall Street Journal writes.  The surge comes at a time when competitors like Michael Kors and Coach are struggling to boost sales. The brands have become notorious for discounting, leading to concerns that customers will be unwilling to pay full-price going forward.  Kate Spade lost $9.1 million in the quarter, but had previously warned that margins would be challenged by investments in the Kate Spade Saturday business.  The brand currently has 98 boutiques and 57 outlets.  Kate Spade has the potential to more than double its business to $2 billion in annual sales by the end of 2016, CEO Craig Leavitt told The Business Of Fashion last year.  The brand plans to achieve growth through offering more product categories, such as home goods and stationary, and expanding e-commerce.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Play Among Friends PafGenworth shares are crashing. In afternoon trade on Thursday, shares of the insurance company were down nearly 38% to below $9 per share. On Wednesday, the stock closed at about $14.  At current prices, the company has a market cap of about $4.4 billion.  The crash in Genworth shares comes after the company on Wednesday night reported earnings that widely missed expectations as it had taken a massive $844 million loss after completing a review of its long-term care businesses.  On a per-share basis, this comes out to a loss of $1.70; Wall Street was looking for earnings of $0.19. Long-term care insurance covers costs associated with nursing homes, hospice care, or other assisted living facilities.  The main problem Genworth found with its assumptions after its review: People are living way longer than they previously assumed. In its earnings release, Genworth said: "The company made changes to its assumptions and methodologies primarily impacting claim terminations, most significantly in later duration claims, and benefit utilization reflecting that claimants are staying on claim longer and utilizing more of their available benefits in aggregate than had previously been assumed in the company's reserve calculations." In plain English, "claimants ... staying on claim longer" means that people on a long-term care plan are making that plan longer term than the company had modeled. Genworth also filed a presentation outlining how it went about changing its models.  As an insurance company, you collect premiums and then stockpile these assets — keeping some in cash and investing others — so that when folks you insure need this money, you can pay it out.  And so the charge that Genworth took on Thursday is related to a need to increase its stockpile for long-term care customers. And the company said it is continuing its review, which, based on Thursday's market reaction, investors aren't thrilled about. Here's a long paragraph from Genworth about that: In the fourth quarter of 2014 the company is conducting its annual review of active life margins and as part of this review it will review the associated assumptions and methodologies. Based on the work done in connection with the recently completed claim reserve review that resulted in changes to claim terminations and benefit utilization assumptions and associated methodologies, the company expects these changes will materially reduce its active life margins... Separately, the company tests its acquired LTC blocks for recoverability as part of its loss recognition testing margin review. Given the age of those blocks, the results of this review are less likely to benefit from management actions, and therefore are more likely to be negatively impacted by the updated claim reserve assumptions and methodologies. The company may also make changes to its other active life margin assumptions and methodologies, but currently cannot predict with more specificity the nature, extent or margin impact of any of the assumption and methodology changes it may make in completing its annual margin review, and whether or not the resulting impact will be material.   Genworth hits a version of two of the phrases investors like to hear least: "materially reduce" and "cannot predict." Investors hate being told that earnings are going to be reduced, and might hate it more when a company isn't sure how something is going to turn out.  And on Thursday, investors are hating Genworth's stock, too.  Here's the ugly chart: Google Finance FREE AppDownload
Are you good with numbers, data, or spreadsheets? Don't be afraid to show off your skills — as it turns out, being a "math geek" is quite lucrative.  New data from PayScale reports that the median salary for math majors is $70,900 — compared to a median salary of $58,600 for all college grads. Some professions, such as data scientists and quantitative analysts, are even higher, with median salaries upwards of $100,000. To find the highest-paying ways "math geeks" can put their skills to work, PayScale looked at the incomes of professionals with 5 to 8 years of experience who majored in math, ranking those with the highest median salaries.  Here are the top 10 professions where math lovers are making bank:  Mike Nudelman FREE AppDownload
The elite management consultancy McKinsey has had a ridiculous amount of influence on American society.  As chronicled by Duff McDonald in his history of the company, "The Firm," the highlights and lowlights include:  • Its consultants urged President Eisenhower to create the Chief of Staff position in the White House. • Its consultants helped GE re-organize in the 1960s, leading to a boom in the corporation's business. • Its consultants guided Enron on its path of self-destruction. "For better or worse," McDonald writes, "McKinsey just might be the most influential collection of talent in the world." And that talent brings in the big bucks, to the tune of $7 billion in revenue a year. If you land a gig there, chances are you'll be making bank, too.  According to Glassdoor, here's the combined compensation — annual salary and bonus — for 15 positions at McKinsey, in ascending order:  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA sample of Botox is seen at the Long Island Plastic Surgical Group at the Americana Manhasset luxury shopping destination in Manhasset(Reuters) - Allergan Inc  on Thursday said that it is currently in discussions with another party that a source familiar with the situation identified as Actavis Inc , just days after the company disclosed that it had been approached. The discussions about a potential merger transaction could lead to "negotiations," Allergan said in a regulatory filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission related to its Dec. 18 meeting with shareholders. Allergan is fighting a $54 billion hostile takeover by Valeant Pharmaceuticals International  and Pershing Square Capital Management, saying that Allergan's growth will be diminished and that Valeant will cut costs too deeply. Allergan had been holding off on talks with Actavis because it was waiting for a California judge to decide on its request for an injunction to stop William Ackman, head of Pershing Square, from voting at the shareholder meeting, a second source familiar with the situation previously told Reuters. The judge cleared the path for Ackman to vote his shares earlier this week by ordering Valeant and Pershing to add disclosures to their proxy filing, which the companies said they would.  (Reporting by Caroline Humer; Editing by Alden Bentley) FREE AppDownload
WILLISTON N.D. (Reuters) - Harold Hamm, the chief executive of North Dakota oil producer Continental Resources Inc, has stunned a bearish crude market by scrapping all of the company's hedges - a bold bet that prices will recover soon after sliding some 25 percent. In so doing, Hamm, who last month called OPEC a "toothless tiger", appears to be bracing for a price war with the world's biggest exporter, Saudi Arabia. The OPEC-leader and other key members of the oil exporter group have so far shown no real sign of moving to cut production to lift prices. Conventional wisdom among oil analysts is that Saudi Arabia, frustrated by a global supply glut caused by soaring output in the United States, is prepared to let prices fall to squeeze U.S. shale oil producers out of the market. "We have elected to monetize nearly all of our outstanding oil hedges, allowing us to fully participate in what we anticipate will be an oil price recovery," Hamm said in a statement on Wednesday when the company posted third-quarter results. Continental will hold a conference call on its quarterly earnings with analysts on Thursday. The move to sell all crude oil hedge positions from October through 2016 netted the oil company a $433 million one-time gain during the most recent quarter. "We view the recent downdraft in oil prices as unsustainable given the lack of fundamental change in supply and demand," Hamm said. Most energy experts said that when prices began falling in June companies should have been carrying more hedging contracts that lock in high prices and protect them from low ones. "It's pretty unusual for a company to monetize all of its hedges. The fact that they're going basically unhedged on oil suggests that they're going to take on a bit more risk," said Leo Mariani, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets. Investing.comSince they traded at more than $115 a barrel in mid-June, benchmark Brent crude futures have plunged to levels not seen since October 2010, closing near $83 a barrel on Wednesday. That rout has punished drillers like Continental, whose shares are down by more than 30 percent over the same period. Many analysts have forecast even lower crude prices. Hedging offers commodity producers protection from sharp price drops, though it can also limit profits if prices soar. By exiting hedging, Hamm is effectively betting that the steep drop in oil prices is a short-term fluke bound to reverse course. To be sure, going "naked" without hedges is not unprecedented. Majors such as Chevron Corp &lt;cvx.n&gt; and Exxon Mobil Corp &lt;xom.n&gt; do little hedging on their own production. Yet in a bit of a strategic hedge, Hamm slashed Continental's 2015 capital spending budget by $600 million, saying he would not put more drilling rigs in the field while prices are low. Given that, Continental doesn't expect its production to jump as much as previously forecast next year. The company now expects a 2015 capital budget of $4.6 billion, down from a previous estimate of $5.2 billion. Continental, a top producer in North Dakota's Bakken field, trimmed its output growth estimate for next year, now expecting a 23-29 percent jump from 2014 levels. Hamm had previously forecast a 26-32 percent jump for next year. It posted third-quarter net income of $533.5 million, or $1.44 per share, compared with $167.5 million, or 45 cents per share, in the year-ago period. Hamm, who founded the Oklahoma City-based company in 1967, is in the midst of a bitter divorce battle with his wife Sue Ann. Since Hamm owns about 68 percent of the company, the divorce settlement holds vast implications. During much of August and September, the CEO spent most days in court to attend his divorce trial, which may result in one of the largest divorce judgments in U.S. history. Philip K. Verleger, president of consultancy PKVerleger LLC and a one-time adviser to President Jimmy Carter, said Continental's decision on hedging may concern investors. "My expectation is that Continental's investors will rue this decision because it changes the firm's business," he said. "Hedging provides an assured cash flow. By dropping the hedges the firm is gambling that prices go up. If they go down Continental will go bust." Other analysts, however, said the company has a strong balance sheet and can weather the downdraft.  (Reporting By Ernest Scheyder in Williston, and Jonathan Leff and Jessica Resnick-Ault in New York; Writing by Terry Wade; Editing by Tom Hogue) FREE AppDownload
Real Vision TelevisionBill Fleckenstein In case you missed it, back in September, CNBC's Jackie DeAngelis asked Fleckenstein if he would admit to misunderstanding monetary policy. DeAngelis argued that if people listened to Fleckentein's recommendations, the would've "missed out on a big piece of the market gain." Fleckenstein's response to that: "So what?" "I thought 'Wow, I'm getting 'schooled' here by a TV talking head—or an online TV talking head—I thought that's all part of the psychological mosaic, right?' You could look at all the sentiment polls. You could look to the behavior of the participants. Now, when the newscasters are castigating you for not understanding monetary policy—um yeah—I mean I thought that was an extreme moment. About a week later...I was on Bloomberg and the same sort of thing happened. I thought 'Wow! The psychology has almost gotten more rabid now than it was in 1999,'" Fleckenstein told Real Vision Television. This, he explained, makes him think there's "another bubble." He didn't say the bubble is going to burst yet, but that it exists.  Fleckenstein was interviewed in a 45-minute segment by Grant Williams, the author of the newsletter "Things That Make You Go Hmmm," on Real Vision Television — an on-demand, subscription video service for investing and economics Williams and former global macro fund manager Raoul Pal recently started. You can check out a small segment below: // <!--[CDATA[OO.ready(function() { OO.Player.create('ooyalaplayer', 'NyY2JqcTqSAZr96jrouxH116lkmNPL5n'); });// ]]--> FREE AppDownload
Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesTesla CEO Elon Musk.Tesla shares were up as much as 4% in early trade on Thursday after the electric carmaker on Wednesday night reported a surprise quarterly profit. In after-hours trade Wednesday night, the stock jumped as much as 12%. Tesla reported earnings per share of $0.02, topping expectations for profit of $0.01. Tesla also reported that in the third quarter it delivered 7,785 Model S vehicles, with revenue for the quarter totaling $932 million. The real story with Tesla's earnings report, however, is that the company said it would make 2,000 more Model S sedans than it expected to sell in 2014.  As Business Insider's Matthew DeBord reported Wednesday night, this gap is something that Tesla earlier indicated would show up in its report, and the company expects this production/sales issue to be resolved in 2015 as its California plant adjusts to higher production levels.  On Tesla's earnings conference call, CEO Elon Musk insisted that the company did not have a demand problem, but a production problem.  "Demand is not our issue; production is our issue," Musk said. "We have more demand than we can address and levers we can pull to increase demand, and we’re not doing it." Tesla is one of the most closely followed stocks in the market, and where the stock goes on Thursday after its earnings report will be at the top of the minds of many traders and investors.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John GressStocks are at all-time highs.  On Wednesday, both the Dow and the S&amp;P 500 hit new all-time closing highs, though the S&amp;P 500 was about a point short of its all-time intraday high during the session, and with gains on Thursday, stocks were again making new records. In afternoon trade, the Dow was up 47 points, the S&amp;P 500 was up 2 points, and the Nasdaq was up 2 points. The latest rise in stocks comes after the European Central Bank's latest monetary policy statement, which saw the central bank do nothing with its benchmark interest rates, while ECB president Mario Draghi struck a decided dovish tone during his press conference. Following this press conference, the euro was falling against the dollar and European stocks were rallying. On Thursday, we also got the latest report on initial jobless claims, which showed that the four-week moving average of claims fell to its lowest level since April 29, 2000.  Crude oil prices were also falling after OPEC cut its outlook for both oil prices and oil demand.  In stock news, Tesla shares will be in focus on Thursday after the electric carmaker on Wednesday night reported profit that topped estimates but said it would produce more cars that in it delivers in 2014.  In afternoon trade the stock was up about 5%.  A big loser on Thursday was Genworth Financial, which last night reported a more than $800 million loss after the company completed a review of its long-term care business. In afternoon trade, the stock was down more than 37%.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tom DuncanCrude oil futures have fallen back below $78 a barrel after OPEC cut its price and demand expectations in its latest World Oil Outlook.  OPEC, or the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries whose 12 members include Saudi Arabia, the UAE, and Venezuela, said that in 2013 dollars, oil prices are expected to remain near $110 a barrel, corresponding to a small decline in real values. The report also expects oil prices to fall to $100 a barrel in 2013 dollars through 2035. In its report, OPEC said that, "medium-term oil demand for the period 2013–2019 increases by an average of 1.0 mb/d annually, reaching 96.0 mb/d by 2019. Over this period, demand in all OECD regions falls with OECD aggregate demand having peaked in 2005, down to 45.2 mb/d in 2019 from 45.9 in 2013." The report added that, "Over the period 2013–2019, total non-OPEC supply increases steadily, rising by 6.4 mb/d over these six years from 54.2 mb/d in 2013 to 60.6 mb/d in 2019. The amount of OPEC crude required will fall from just over 30 mb/d in 2013 to 28.2 mb/d in 2017, and will start to rise again in 2018. By 2019, OPEC crude supply, at 28.7 mb/d, is still lower than in 2013." The report also says that there is a need for "capacity rationalization" for the refining sector.  "The medium-term excess in incremental refinery potential output over incremental product requirements highlights the need for a continued rationalization of the refinery sector, especially in industrialized regions where demand continues to decline," the report said. The recent tumble in oil prices has been attributed to a number of potential factors, ranging from the end of a super-cycle in oil prices, to excess to supply, to waning demand. Here's the chart of oil prices on Thursday morning.  FinViz FREE AppDownload
 Russian President Vladimir Putin has left his mark in the international community over the past few months, but his motives remain unclear. There is ongoing debate over whether Putin's moves are part of a larger master plan, or whether he is just acting impulsively day by day. One former aid who was known as "Kremlin's Banker" firmly believes that the world's "most powerful" person is just winging it. "Putin is not someone who sets strategic plans; he lives today," Sergei Pugachev said in an interview with Time. Pugachev was a big player in Moscow until recent years. He founded Mozhprombank (International Industrial Bank) in Moscow in 1992, and within four years was a "Kremlin powerbroker," helping politicians win elections. Things went sour in 2010, and then the Kremlin started aggressively buying up his business. Pugachev fled to London in 2011. While Pugachev was a Kremlin favorite, he spent plenty of time with Putin. In fact, he "spoke to him almost every day probably" when Putin was St. Petersburg's mayor and Pugachev served as an adviser. The former aide believes that Putin didn't have any master plan for his career. He just sort of ended up as president because "there weren't any other options," and his former boss was a democratic ex-mayor of St. Petersburg, according to the report by Oliver Bullough. "He had no plans; he didn't aim to become president. He hadn't thought of that. He didn't plan to remain in the government at all," he added.  Pugachev suggests that the Russian leader might not be making economic decisions strategically. "Vladimir Putin does not understand economics. He does not like it. It is dry. It's boring to hear these reports, to read them," Pugachev says. "He likes clear things: Russia's moving ahead, how great everything is. He does not have a deep understanding of what is happening." Right now, Russia is facing serious economic problems. Not to mention the rouble keeps plunging. Pugachev says Putin doesn't care. "Putin's close circle understands that he likes good news, so they always bring him good news. Whatever is happening, it's good. For him, it's enough to be in a good mood," Pugachev told Time.  FREE AppDownload
On Nov. 7 the speed limit in New York City becomes 25 mph. Previously, it was 30 mph. This change is part of New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio's Vision Zero initiative to end traffic fatalities in the city by 2024. The Big Apple looked to Sweden for a solution after 294 traffic fatalities in 2013 — the city's worst year since 2006.  Produced by Sam Rega Follow BI Video: On Twitter
More than two years ago, the IRS used a controversial policy known as civil forfeiture to empty the bank account of a small business owned by three Long Island brothers. The brothers, Jeff, Mitch, and Rich Hirsch, haven't even been charged with a crime. But the IRS is holding their $446,651 hostage while they struggle to run their convenience-store distribution business without that cash. "We're very angry about this," Jeff, 55, said recently over the phone. "I think it's wrong, especially when you do nothing wrong, and you can prove you've done nothing wrong, and they still have your money." The process of civil forfeiture allows the government — often the police, but in this case, the IRS — to seize money thought to have been obtained illegally. The IRS has been seizing funds it believes were deposited in an illegal way. Banks must report deposits of over $10,000 to the federal government. Anybody who makes repeated deposits of just under $10,000 specifically to avoid this requirement is guilty of a crime called restructuring (also known as "smurfing"). The problem is local businesses often have legitimate reasons for making large cash deposits — including the Hirsches' business, Bi-County Distributors, which deals with bodegas (convenience stores) that pay them in cash. Jeff Hirsch had never heard the term "restructuring" before a Monday in May 2012 when his brother tried to make a deposit in the business' account. "My brother went to the bank with the deposit, and the teller said, 'I don’t know if you want to make the bank deposit today because it looks like your account is frozen,” Jeff said. That very day, the Hirsches had to open up a new account so they had somewhere to deposit their money. After 60 days, the IRS drained the nearly $447,000 from the first account. The brothers hired a lawyer, Joseph Potashnik, who advised them to have a CPA firm, Baker Tilly, do a forensic audit of the business' accounts. That firm found Bi-County had properly reported cash transactions to the IRS and, in the opinion of the firm, had not tried to avoid reporting requirements. (This is according to a new court filing on behalf of the brothers, filed by their new lawyer, Lawrence Salzman of the Institute for Justice.) The government has offered to "settle" the case, meaning it would get to keep some of money it seized. The recent court filing by the brothers doesn't quote an exact settlement amount but says the brothers considered it "excessive." In October, the Institute for Justice filed a "motion for return of property" that could ultimately result in the return of the brothers' money — nearly two and a half years after it was seized. For now, here's how Jeff describes the status of his forfeiture case: "It's still the same as it was in 2012." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFord of Europe CEO Stephen Odell speaks to Reuters during an interview in CologneBERLIN (Reuters) - Ford Motor Co  declined comment on Thursday on a magazine report saying Stephen Odell, its European chief executive, will be replaced. Odell will be moved to a new role within the U.S. automaker and be succeeded by a candidate from within the company, Bilanz magazine reported on Thursday. "We don't comment on speculation," Ford of Europe spokesman John Gardiner told Reuters.  (Reporting by Andreas Cremer; Editing by Christoph Steitz) FREE AppDownload
European Central Bank president Mario Draghi said ECB officials were unanimous in their commitment to unleash more monetary stimulus if needed. The euro is plunging on the news. In recent months, economic conditions have deteriorated substantially in the eurozone, with growth slowing and prices sliding. Economists have been expecting more easy monetary policy to come. However, it appears the currency markets weren't expecting Draghi and the ECB to be quite so dovish in their language Thursday. All of this comes as economic data improves in the US. Last week, the Federal Reserve announced the end of quantitative easing, a monetary stimulus program involving the purchases of Treasury and mortgage bonds. The Fed has also been prepping everyone for tighter monetary policy via hikes in interest rates sometime next year. Tighter policy from the Fed is bullish for the US dollar, while looser policy from the ECB is bearish for the euro. So it's no surprise to see the euro plunging against the dollar on the news. Here's a chart of the euro against the dollar via FinViz.com: FinVizHere's a look at the euro against the dollar. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mark MakelaWeekly jobless claims fell to 278,000, while the four-week average of claims tumbled to its lowest level since April 2000. Expectations were for the report to show that claims totaled 285,000, down slightly from last week's 287,000.  The four-week moving average of claims also fell further, to 279,000, the lowest level since the average was at 273,000 in April 2000.  This report also comes a day before Friday's October jobs report.  Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics said: "In one line: Low enough to signal very strong November payrolls ... the levels of claims is now extremely low, close to all-time records, and together with robust survey measures of hiring intentions, it signals very rapid payroll growth." Shepherdson expects Friday's jobs report to show that nonfarm payrolls grew by 275,000 in October.  FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogIn the past, when sentiment, as measured by the Bull/Bear Ratio compiled by Investors Intelligence, was too bullish, the market often took a fall. Contrarians tended to turn bearish when the ratio rose to 3.00 or higher, and bullish when it was down to 1.00 or lower. Previously, I’ve demonstrated that the ratio works better as a contrary buy signal than as a sell signal. In the current manic environment, I doubt that it will be a very useful sell signal. That was demonstrated by the latest correction, in my opinion. The Bull/Bear Ratio whipsawed from a recent high of 4.22 during the week of September 2 down to a low of 1.94 during the week of October 21. It rebounded to 3.62 this week. Most of the swings down and up were attributable to bulls jumping into the correction camp and then back into the bullish one. Remarkably, bearish sentiment has averaged just 15.4% since the start of September, the lowest since 1987, and below readings during the financial crisis of 2008-2009. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Mood Swings. (1) Manic-depressive disorder. (2) Computers vs. humans. (3) Algorithms reading the headlines. (4) Bull/Bear Ratio’s latest bungee jump. (5) The bears have left the building. (6) The fourth phase of the bull market. (7) Don’t fight the central banks. (8) Don’t fight the political cycle. (9) Congressional mid-term elections and third years of presidential terms tend to be very bullish. (10) SMidCaps are rising and outperforming again for a couple of good reasons. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidIt's a rainy morning here in New York City, just one day before the big October jobs report. Via Dave Lutz of JonesTrading, here's a quick guide to what traders are chatting about this morning. Good Morning! US Futures are basically flat, The BOE just announced no change in their policy, as expected - we now await the ECB decision (most analysts expecting the ECB to hold interest rates at record lows and refrain from introducing any major new easing measures) – Euro Stoxx are mixed in average volume, as traders await the announcement - Banks among worst EU performers, while retailers were outperforming on #s. Looking over in Asia, Russia’s Micex is up 1.5% as Oil continues to stabilize, but the Russian ruble continued its recent slide, hitting a fresh all-time low. Japan was off 90bp in profit taking – Hang Send lost small again, and China was up 20bp. Aussie closed in the red - Iron-ore prices sank to a near five-and-a-half year low as China Tries to Cut Pollution Ahead of APEC Forum – this killed Aussie Miners, led by a 9% drop in Fortescue Metals. German Yields are slightly higher, but US yields unch as we await multiple FOMC speakers today. Despite light factory orders from Germany, some position squaring finds the Euro making gains against the $, while USDJPY retreated from Y115.4 overnight. With the weaker dollar, we have a tailwind to commodities, but most rest in the red.  Growth metals like Silver and Copper are under pressure, as OECD cut global growth forecasts and China retreats into APEC – WTI and Brent are both in the red, despite Gunmen seizing Libya's major Sharara oilfield , as expanded Russian sanctions and US exports loom, while Natty Gas continues its upward trajectory, adding small to its 10% gain over the last week. There was heavy pain in Gold yesterday on reports of a collapse of Asian buying – and the Yellow metal is showing little life this AM. We have a few Deals on the tape (Over $5B worth) which are helping sentiment – along with TSLA and WFMI higher on #s, but the main catalyst is the ECB today. Yesterday saw the Utilities gaining strong globally, as possible GPIF buying was causing the shorts to cover despite LO profit-taking.  I keep focusing on the Homebuilders, as the ITB closed near its 200dma for its 10th session in a row yesterday. For those in Transports, watch the rotation from Airlines back towards Rails if the Oil patch catches a bid.  The High Beta names were hit sharply yesterday (Profit-taking + Einhorn), but many names like TSLA, GPRO, FEYE, GILD are all bid higher this morning. Other Scheduled Catalysts today include Challenger Job Cuts at 7:30, At 7:45 we have the ECB decision, followed by the Draghi and weekly US claims at 8:30 - Fed's Evans speaks at 10:40, and Fed's Mester Speaks on Forward Guidance after the Close. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange shortly after the markets opened, in New YorkBy Ryan Vlastelica NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures were little changed on Thursday, as investors held off on making bets with key indexes at record levels and looked toward Friday's closely watched payrolls report for trading incentives. * Both the Dow and S&amp;P 500 hit closing highs Wednesday after the Republican Party took control of the Senate in the midterm elections, allaying fears of drawn-out runoff votes and raising hopes for business- and energy-friendly policies. * Equities have been strong of late, with the benchmark S&amp;P 500 rising in ten of the past 16 sessions, and only recording modest losses on its down days. The index has not closed with a loss of 1 percent since Oct. 13; it has had five days with a gain of that magnitude since then. * Tesla Motors Inc  was the most active name of Nasdaq's premarket session, jumping 5 percent to $242.60 a day after its third-quarter results beat expectations. The electric car maker also said production of its next vehicle would be delayed until the autumn of 2015. * Energy shares will continue to be in focus amid heavy volatility. The sector, the only one of the ten primary S&amp;P 500 industry groups to have negative year-to-date returns, has been heavily pressured by a massive drop in the price of oil. Crude prices  were off 0.3 percent to $78.46 per barrel. * Over the past 14 sessions, the S&amp;P energy sector  has posted a daily move of 14.93 points, compared with 5.4 points in late August. * Investors are looking ahead to the latest jobless claims data at 8:30 a.m., which is expected to drop by 2,000 to 285,000 in the latest week. * That follows Wednesday's ADP National Employment report which showed more jobs were added in October than expected, raising hopes for Friday's payroll data. The latter is expected to show 231,000 jobs added in October, down from the 248,000 in the previous month. Futures snapshot at 6:49 a.m.: * S&amp;P 500 e-minis  were down 2.25 points, or 0.11 percent, with 96,229 contracts changing hands. * Nasdaq 100 e-minis  remained unchanged, in volume of 15,335 contracts. * Dow e-minis  were down 4 points, or 0.02 percent, with 19,124 contracts changing hands.   (Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorParticipants in costumes take part in one of a series of processions during Bonfire night celebrations in Lewes, southern England, on Wednesday.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Here Comes The ECB... The big economic calendar event Thursday is the European Central Bank’s rates decision and news conference. The ECB already announced that it would keep rates unchanged at extraordinarily low levels. The post-meeting presser, which comes at 8:30 a.m. ET, could reveal clues about further easing actions. Here’s everything you need to know. The Bank Of England Stays Put. The Bank of England kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 0.50% and the target for its asset-purchase program at 375 billion pounds. German Factory Orders Were Awful Again. The eurozone's biggest economy recorded a measly 0.8% boost to factory orders for September. Analysts had expected a 2.3% rise, which would have partly counteracted August's 5.7% collapse. Markets Are Down. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed down 0.8%, and Hong Kong's Hang Seng fell 0.2%. European markets are slightly down, with Britain's FTSE 100 down 0.3% and France's CAC down 0.1%. US futures are unchanged. US Data. At 8:30 a.m. ET, we'll get the latest weekly tally of initial unemployment insurance claims. Economists estimate the pace of weekly claims fell to 285,000 from 287,000 a week ago. "Initial claims have been below 300k for seven consecutive weeks, and continuing claims have been steadily trending lower, suggesting solid improvement in labor market performance," Nomura economists said. Tesla Surges. The electric carmaker Tesla reported a $0.02 profit per share, beating expectations for a breakeven quarter. Shares were up by 6% in premarket trading. Whole Foods Goes Bananas. Grocery chain Whole Foods announced earnings of $0.35 per share, beating expectations for $0.32 per share. This was driven by a 3.1% gain in same-store sales. The stock was up by 9% in premarket trading. Luxembourg’s Alleged Secret Tax Deals With Massive Firms Have Been Leaked. Hundreds of the world's biggest companies reportedly brokered secret deals with Luxembourg to avoid paying billions of dollars in tax, according to a trove of leaked documents published by an investigative journalism group. Dealogic Is Being Bought For $700 Million. Carlyle Group LP said it would partner with other investors to buy the US-based financial data provider Dealogic.  News Corp Revenues Are Up 4%. News Corp., publisher of The Wall Street Journal, The Sun, and The Times, reported a 4% rise in quarterly revenue, helped by higher sales at its book publishing and online real estate services businesses. FREE AppDownload
AOL's revenue jumped 11.7% to $626.8 million from $561.3 million in the third quarter. That was ahead of analyst expectations of $623.50 million. Sales were driven by strong ad sales.  Net income attributable to AOL rose to $28.5 million, or $0.35 per share, for the third quarter ended Sept. 30, from $2 million, or $0.02 per share, a year earlier.  AOL's display ad business on its own properties was flat on a year over year basis. But, if you don't include properties that were shut down or sold, then display ad revenue was up 7%.  The ad business was really driven by its "third-party" ad sales. From the release, here's a break down of ad sales: AOLAOL (Reporting by Anya George Tharakan in Bangalore; Editing by Don Sebastian) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
During the divorce trial of oil baron Harold Hamm and wife Sue Ann, an unusual relationship took shape in the Oklahoma courtroom as the marriage was being dismantled. From the bench, Special Judge Howard Haralson playfully tossed red and white peppermints to a lawyer sitting alone in the jury box who didn't represent either of the Hamms in the case. The man, Eric Eissenstat, serves as general counsel, senior vice president, secretary and chief risk officer for Continental Resources, the publicly traded oil company founded and run by Harold. And during a trial that could result in one of the largest divorce judgments in U.S. history, Eissenstat emerged as one of the most important people in the courtroom. For all but a few hours of testimony in the nine-week trial, the proceedings were closed to the public and to the media – a practice atypical in divorce cases that don't involve child custody disputes. But interviews with a half-dozen people who were present in the courtroom, and with others familiar with the case, indicate that Eissenstat played an extraordinary role throughout the trial. It was Eissenstat, the company's top lawyer, who advocated successfully for the trial to be closed to the public, contending that discussion of Continental's confidential business information warranted secrecy. Judge Haralson agreed, saying on the first day of trial that he wished to keep “a divorce trial from destroying” Continental, one of America's most successful oil companies. Although about 95 percent of the trial was closed, Eissenstat was allowed to stay and to participate. Eissenstat also attended pre-trial hearings, court filings show, and visited frequently with Harold Hamm's personal divorce attorneys, according to people familiar with the case. After the trial began, Eissenstat's role in the case grew. Haralson allowed Eissenstat to interject during the proceedings, to approach the bench, and to attend meetings with the spouses' lawyers in chambers, according to court filings and interviews with others in the courtroom. On several occasions, Eissenstat, 56, passed through the judge's chambers or into a court staff room and engaged the judge and his staff in conversations, said Haralson's bailiff, Jessica Rodriguez. The conversations were “general chitchat,” Rodriguez said. “We're all pretty friendly around here.” In a statement, Continental said Eissenstat “did not speak privately with Judge Haralson in his chambers, and his relationship with Judge Haralson is professional and no different than the other individuals present in his courtroom.” To at least one witness, Eissenstat, a tall, slim career litigator, was an imposing presence. “Eric positioned himself in a very tactical way in the room, in the jury box, basically right on the witness's shoulder,” said a former associate of Harold's who testified in the case. “When the judge looks at the witness, he's also looking at Eric. It just seems intimidating.” Reuters interviewed more than a dozen legal experts including family law attorneys, law professors, retired judges and marital dissolution consultants. All said that Eissenstat's level of involvement in his boss' divorce trial seemed uncommonly deep. Some said that the role Eissenstat – and by extension, Continental – played at the trial raises questions about whether the company supported the personal agenda of Harold Hamm, the company's top shareholder, to the detriment of other shareholders.  On Thursday, the day after Continental releases its quarterly earnings, analysts will have a chance to ask about the divorce case during a conference call the company is hosting. “It sounds like the corporation is part of the divorce case,” said Arnold Rutkin, a lawyer at Rutkin Oldham in Connecticut. Rutkin represented the wife of Gary Wendt, a former chief executive at the General Electric Capital unit of GE, in one of the biggest U.S. divorces of the 1990s. “There are only two parties in a divorce: husband and wife.” In that case, Rutkin said he did not recall GE Capital's attorneys playing anything close to the role that Eissenstat is playing in the Hamm divorce. A key difference in the cases is that although Wendt was a top executive, he wasn't a major owner of GE. Hamm owns about two-thirds of Continental. Haralson did not respond to questions from Reuters. His bailiff said the judge would not speak publicly about the case before ruling.  Continental, in its statement, said it "did not seek to participate in the divorce case." It was compelled to by Sue Ann, it said. In a court filing last month, Continental said the extent of its involvement in the case may be unprecedented. It contends it has been required to turn over more documents and data than any company “has ever been forced to produce in divorce proceedings in Oklahoma and possibly the nation.” Steve Sisney /ReutersHarold Hamm, founder and CEO of Continental Resources, at the courthouse for divorce proceedings with Sue Ann Hamm in Oklahoma City on Sept. 22.Hamm started Continental in 1967, and about 68 percent of the firm's shares are in his name. His stake was worth more than $18 billion when the trial started in August. It's worth around $14 billion today. Since the couple wed in 1988, Continental has grown from a smalltime driller worth less than $50 million into a $20 billion behemoth and one of Oklahoma's largest companies. Because Harold owned his shares before he and Sue Ann were married, they belong to him. But under Oklahoma law, their “active” appreciation since 1988 is subject to “equitable distribution” with Sue Ann, a former executive at Continental who filed for divorce from Harold in 2012. Her legal team contends that the amount of marital wealth the court should divide is more than $17 billion, a sum that included most of Harold's stake in Continental a few months before the trial began. Court filings show that his attorneys argued that the couple's shared wealth is a tiny fraction of that amount. The couple never signed a prenuptial agreement. Harold Hamm's leadership at Continental is central to the case. In court, his lawyers attributed most of Continental's success not to Hamm's business savvy but to factors beyond his control. If Haralson accepts the argument – that market factors such as rising oil prices, or decisions made prior to marriage caused Continental's growth – the award toSue Ann could be much smaller. The trial ended on Oct. 9, and Haralson is poring over thousands of pages of evidence before he issues a judgment in the coming weeks, or the two sides settle. Last week, Haralson denied a motion by Reuters to intervene in the case to have trial transcripts and other records unsealed. The Oklahoma Supreme Court, which heard the Reuters request to unseal the records this week, has not yet ruled. In a filing before those hearings, Continental said it opposed opening court records because the documents contain confidential business information, including strategic plans, board minutes, and highly sensitive information on its oil reserves, among other things. “A corporate counsel would have a legitimate role in trying to keep confidential information about the company from being disseminated,” said Ilan Hirschfeld, head of the marital dissolution practice at the consultancy firm Marcum LLP in New Jersey. Steve Sisney/ReutersSue Ann Hamm before divorce proceedings with Harold Hamm, founder and CEO of Continental Resources, in Oklahoma City on Sept. 22.Continental may also have a significant interest in the outcome of the trial. If Sue Ann, 58, wins a multi-billion dollar award, a judgment that size could prompt Harold to sell Continental shares, a move that could lead to a change in control of the company. In one court filing, Continental dismissed that possibility as "unfounded speculation." Eissenstat, appointed as Continental's general counsel in 2010, previously had represented Continental and Harold Hamm personally during 27 years in private practice. As recently as 2010, he served as Harold's personal lawyer in a case involving Oklahoma oil and gas wells. Continental was not a party in that case. As of Feb. 22, Eissenstat also owned shares in Continental valued at more than $7 million, SEC filings show. Months before the Hamm divorce trial, Continental expanded Eissenstat's role at the firm, naming him its chief risk officer. The new responsibilities put Eissenstat in charge of keeping Continental out of corporate governance trouble and guarding against conflicts of interest and reputational damage – duties that would give Eissenstat reason to be concerned about the divorce trial. In court filings, Continental said it was brought into the case by Sue Ann Hamm's broad and “abusive” demands for evidence from the company, and because dozens of its current or former employees were subpoenaed. “Continental doesn't like being here,” Eissenstat said at a pre-trial hearing, according to a transcript. Eissenstat told the judge he was only present in court to protect the firm's interests, not Harold's. Allegations by Sue Ann's team that Continental meddled in the case to help Harold have been a sore point between the spouses. In one court filing, his divorce attorneys wrote that the divorce is a matter of “common interest for Mr. Eissenstat,” citing his duty to “all shareholders to oversee any litigation impacting the company.” They added: “Harold Hamm and his counsel are frankly insulted by Petitioner's veiled suggestion of some collusion between them and (Continental) against her interests.” Although Continental says it hasn't taken sides in the divorce, the company has taken unusual steps that could help Harold's case. In September, Reuters reported that the company revised its corporate history in ways that diminish the part Hamm played in its success. In downplaying the CEO's role, the firm recently deleted, added or revised at least 18 items on its website or in corporate filings, Reuters found. (http://reut.rs/1uYWqpH)  In addition, Continental has weighed in against Sue Ann. In one of the company's many filings in the case, a “friend-of-the-court” brief in February, Continental urged the judge to deny Sue Annadditional time to prepare for the trial. “To say the least, it's highly unusual for a company to file a friend-of-the court brief in its CEO's closed-door divorce proceeding to oppose his wife's request for more trial preparation time,” said appellate attorney Lawrence Ebner, a Washington-based partner at law firm McKenna Long &amp; Aldridge. Court records show that Haralson denied Sue Ann Hamm's request for another five months of trial preparation. Being hurried to trial could hurt her case, her lawyers contended in court filings, because they were racing to examine about 700,000 pages of uncategorized Continental documents that Eissenstat had delivered to them in response to evidence requests. A spokeswoman for Continental, Kristin Miskovsky, has repeatedly said the divorce has had no effect on the company. “Mr. Hamm's divorce proceeding is a private matter and has not and is not anticipated to impact Continental Resources' business or operations,” the company said. In one court filing, however, the company says its role in the case has come at “enormous expense.” Eissenstat and his in-house team handled discovery requests in the case. They have filed more than 40 briefs, objections or motions in the divorce case. “Mr. Hamm has an interest in winning, and Continental should not have an interest in Hammwinning per se,” said Paula Dalley, a professor of corporate law at Oklahoma City University Law School. “That's where a conflict of interest could arise. The outcome for Hamm personally shouldn't matter to the corporation.” Former Continental employees who were deposed or called as witnesses told Reuters that the oil company paid for lawyers to represent them. The employees requested anonymity after signing agreements not to discuss their depositions or testimony. It is not unusual for company lawyers to represent employees who will testify in legal cases about their work. But Judith Maute, a law professor at the University of Oklahoma, said that if Eissenstat and Continental used company resources to help Harold, it could draw the ire of other shareholders.  A general counsel's duty is to his corporation, not to the CEO's personal interests, she said. “If the general counsel is spending lots of time or company money to save the assets of the person, then he may be in breach of fiduciary duties to shareholders.” Eissenstat's role and Continental's costly involvement in the marital dispute have not been disclosed in detail to the firm's shareholders. How much the company's board knows about Continental's participation in the Hamms' divorce isn't clear. Continental declined to address the question of whether it plans to bill Harold Hamm for the costs it's incurring related to the divorce case. What is apparent is the trust the company has put in its top lawyer. Asked about Continental's involvement in the case, David Boren, the powerful Oklahoma politician who sits on Continental's board and testified in the divorce trial, had little to say. “I have a policy not to make separate statements as a board member,” Boren said. “If you have any questions, please contact Eric Eissenstat.” (This story has been refiled to restore the paragraphs that were dropped from some versions of this story) (Reporting By Joshua Schneyer in Oklahoma City and Brian Grow in Atlanta. Editing by Blake Morrison and Michael Williams) FREE AppDownload
U.S. prosecutors have launched a money-laundering investigation into a member of Russian President Vladimir Putin's inner circle, the Wall Street Journal reported on Wednesday, citing people familiar with the matter. According to the report, the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York is probing whether billionaire Russian gas trader and Putin associate Gennady Timchenko transferred funds related to allegedly corrupt deals in Russia through the U.S. financial system. The Justice Department is aiding the investigation, it said. The prosecutors are investigating transactions in which Gunvor Group, a commodities firm founded by Timchenko, bought oil from Russia's OAO Rosneft and sold it to third parties, the newspaper reported. The report said that the transactions predate U.S. sanctions against Russia introduced in March on Timchenko and others over the Ukraine crisis. Timchenko is also co-owner of Russia's No. 2 gas producer Novatek. Transfers of funds related to the transactions could constitute illegal money laundering if the funds were found to have originated from illicit activity such as, for example, irregular sales of state assets like oil, the newspaper said. The newspaper cited one source as saying the probe is also examining whether any of Putin’s personal wealth is connected to allegedly illicit funds. The U.S. Treasury has said that Putin has investments in Gunvor and may have access to Gunvor's funds. Both the company and the Kremlin have strenuously denied those allegations. Timchenko, Gunvor, the U.S. Attorney Office and the Justice Department could not be reached out for comment outside the regular U.S. working hours. (Reporting by Anjali Rao Koppala in Bangalore; Editing by Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
ECBSpeak politely and carry a really big stick.One of the news items floating around the global finance industry Thursday morning is a letter the former head of the European Central Bank Jean-Claude Trichet wrote to the finance minister of Ireland during the financial crisis. In the letter, which you can read here, Trichet made clear that if Ireland wanted a bailout, it was going to have to publicly humiliate itself by asking for one. The content of the letter is interesting, for the reasons BI's Tomas Hirst explains here, but The Wall Street Journal's Katie Martin noted something else that was startling about it: Trichet's signature. If you're going to throw your weight around and make giant companies and countries tremble and kiss your ring, you might as well do it in style. And Mr. Trichet certainly does: ECB letter As Katie Martin observed, with only a bit of added notation, the signature can be transformed into the symbol it was:   POW! pic.twitter.com/3Ooejm8xss FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersChief Executive of AstraZeneca Pascal Soriot leaves after appearing at a commons science committee hearing at Portcullis House in LondonLONDON (Reuters) - Recent U.S. tax changes have weakened the case for companies like Pfizer  to shift their tax bases overseas by striking so-called tax inversion deals, according to AstraZeneca's  chief executive. AstraZeneca fended off a $118 billion takeover bid from its larger U.S. rival in May but there is speculation Pfizer may return after Nov. 26, when it is allowed to make a fresh public offer under British takeover rules. "The U.S. rules have certainly raised the bar for tax inversions for all companies that are considering tax inverting. They almost entirely remove the tax benefits," Pascal Soriot told reporters after presenting third-quarter results. "It makes a tax inversion much less attractive." He said he could not comment on how Pfizer would assess the situation, but pointed to the collapse of AbbVie's  planned $55 billion acquisition of Shire  in another deal driven by tax considerations as showing the problems. "It sends a very strong signal that the tax inversion risk is serious and has turned into a reality. It has cost AbbVie a lot of money and it has cost Shire a lot of distraction," he said. Soriot declined to comment on whether he might be interested in moving to French drugmaker Sanofi , which sacked its CEO last week. Many industry observers expect Sanofi's board to look for a Frenchman to take over. However, Soriot, who is a French citizen, said he saw himself as Australian, since his family was based there.  (Reporting by Ben Hirschler; editing by Kate Holton) FREE AppDownload
Global growth is pretty slow: but nothing is quite as slow as Europe. That's the main message from the Organisation for Economic C0-operation and Development (OECD) Thursday morning. Its latest set of economic forecasts are out, and they're not pretty. According to the Paris-based think tank, global growth will only reach 3.3% this year, 3.7% next year and 3.9% in 2016. That's a pretty meagre pace in comparison to the expansion before the crisis. But if you thought global growth was poor, check out the eurozone: OECD France and Italy's growth projections for 2015 are only beaten by Russia. In 2016, the OECD suggests only ageing Japan will see slower growth than the two sluggish euro economies. Even a relatively optimistic 1.7% projection for GDP growth for the eurozone by 2016 is barely half the pace expected for the US. So at this point the OECD are pleading with the ECB, who announce their latest policy decisions today: please, please do QE. Buy something, buy anything! OECD Angel Gurria, secretary general of the OECD, summed it up: "There is an increasing risk of stagnation in the euro area. Countries must employ all monetary, fiscal and structural reform policies at their disposal to address these risks and support growth." FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Adam BerryJean-Claude Trichet.A leaked letter published by The Irish Times on Thursday shows the European Central Bank (ECB) threatened in November 2010 to pull emergency funding from Irish banks if the Irish government did not apply for a bailout. The letter is significant because the ECB previously held that Ireland voluntarily asked for a bailout, effectively declaring that the state was failing. That has now been shown to be false.  During some of the worst moments of the financial crisis, central banks around the world acted decisively to head off the possible collapse of financial system. In Europe, it seems, that support came with a price tag. Below is the full letter from then- ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet to Brian Lenihan, Ireland's finance minister at the time (emphasis added). It shows the ECB demanded not only that the Irish government seek a bailout, but also that Irish taxpayers guarantee the emergency funding to its banking sector in order to receive central bank support. The letter in evidence of the ECB straying into government policy of member states as early as 2010. As this two line statement issued by the ECB at the time Cyprus fell into difficulty in 2013 demonstrates, making emergency liquidity assistance conditional on accepting economic reforms under the oversight of the so-called troika (made up of the European Commission, the IMF and the ECB) has now become the region's de facto model for dealing with banking crises. Critics would argue that such conditionality shows the ECB was willing to overstep the traditional boundaries of central banks by straying into the sovereign affairs of euro member states. Mr Brian Lenihan, Tánaiste and Minister of Finance Frankfurt, 19 November 2010 Dear Minister, As you are aware from my previous letter dated 15 October, the provision of Emergency Liquidity Assistance (ELA) by the Central Bank of Ireland, as by any other national central bank of the Eurosystem, is closely monitored by the Governing Council of the European Central Bank (ECB) as it may interfere with the objectives and tasks of the Eurosystem and may contravene the prohibition of monetary financing. Therefore, whenever ELA is provided in significant amounts, the Governing Council needs to assess whether it is appropriate to impose specific conditions in order to protect the integrity of our monetary policy. In addition, in order to ensure compliance with the prohibition of monetary financing, it is essential to ensure that ELA recipient institutions continue to be solvent. As I indicated at the recent Eurogroup meeting, the exposure of the Eurosystem and of the Central Bank of Ireland vis-a-vis Irish financial institutions has risen significantly over the past few months to levels that we consider with great concern. Recent developments can only add to these concerns. As Patrick Honohan knows, the Governing Council has been asked yesterday to authorise new liquidity assistance, which it did. But all these considerations have implications for the assessment of the solvency of the institutions which are currently receiving ELA. It is the position of the Governing Council that it is only if we receive in writing a commitment from the Irish government vis-a-vis the Eurosystem on the four following points that we can authorise further provisions of ELA to Irish financial institutions: 1) The Irish government shall send a request for financial support to the Eurogroup; 2) The request shall include the commitment to undertake decisive actions in the areas of fiscal consolidation, structural reforms and financial sector restructuring, in agreement with the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and the ECB; 3) The plan for the restructuring of the Irish financial sector shall include the provision of the necessary capital to those Irish banks needing it and will be funded by the financial resources provided at the European and international level to the Irish government as well as by financial means currently available to the lrish government, including existing cash reserves of the Irish government; 4) The repayment of the funds provided in the form of ELA shall be fully guaranteed by the Irish government, which would ensure the payment of immediate compensation to the Central Bank of Ireland in the event of missed payments on the side of the recipient institutions. I am sure that you are aware that a swift response is needed before markets open next week, as evidenced by recent market tensions which may further escalate, possibly in a disruptive way, if no concrete action is taken by the Irish government on the points I mention above.Besides the issue of the provision of ELA, the Governing Council of the ECB is extremely concerned about the very large overall credit exposure of the Eurosystem towards the Irish banking system. The Governing Council constantly monitors the credit granted to the banking system not only in Ireland but in all euro area countries, and in particular the size of Eurosystem exposures to individual banks, the financial soundness of these banks and the collateral they provide to the Eurosystem. The assessment of the Governing Council on the appropriateness of the Eurosystem’s exposure to Irish banks will essentially depend on rapid and decisive progress in the formulation of a concrete action plan in the areas which have been mentioned in this letter and in its subsequent implementation. With kind regards, Jean-Claude Trichet FREE AppDownload
UK Industrial production increased by 0.6% between August and September, which is better than the expected 0.4% increase. The marginal uptick reflects increases of 3.8% in mining and quarrying, 0.4% in manufacturing, and 1.5% in the water supply, sewerage, and waste management sector, the Office of National Statistics said.  Production and manufacturing increased by 1.5% year-over-year in September.  Office of National Statistics Markets are down in Europe. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersDisplays of Takata Corp are pictured at a showroom for vehicles in TokyoBy Mari Saito and Maki Shiraki TOKYO (Reuters) - Takata Corp, whose potentially defective air bags have been linked to four deaths in the United States, warned of a bigger full-year loss and skipped its dividend - the first time it did not offer a payout since it listed in 2006. The Japanese automotive safety equipment maker has been beset by chronic problems with defective inflators in its air bags, which can explode with excessive force and spray metal shards inside the vehicle. The air bags, used by many leading car makers, are the focus of an U.S. regulatory probe and have prompted the recall of some 17 million cars worldwide in the past six years. Before a packed briefing room at the Tokyo Stock Exchange, Yoichiro Nomura, executive vice president and chief financial officer, bowed in apology to customers affected by the recalls. "We would like to apologize for worrying and concerning all our customers, automakers and shareholders who have been affected by repeated recalls of cars with our air bags," he said. Takata, which has 22 percent of the global market for air bag inflators - the explosive device that allows the air bag to inflate in a fraction of a second in the event of a crash - has already set aside 75 billion yen ($655 million), around enough to cover the recall of up to 9 million cars. It said it took an additional 2.3 billion yen charge in July-September to cover recalls of another 160,000 cars, but had not put aside funds to cover potential U.S. class action lawsuits against it. The company booked a 49.9 billion yen special loss, which includes other costs unrelated to recalls, for April-September. As uncertainty remains over potential future recalls and the likely cost of a growing number of legal cases against Takata and some automakers, including Honda Motor Co, its biggest customer for inflators, shares in Takata have almost halved in value since January. Takata, which has a strong cash position for now, revised its full-year forecast to a 25 billion yen ($218.4 million) net loss from a previous forecast for a 24 billion yen loss. It reported a first-half net loss of 35.24 billion yen, versus a year-earlier profit of 769 million yen. Nomura said the forecasts were calculated on the assumption that Takata, with "manufacturer's liability", will bear the full cost of the recalls. He said he was unaware of any discussions with automakers about sharing recall costs. Takata said it had not heard of any orders being canceled for the current second half of this year.  RIVAL RAISES FORECASTS Osaka-based Daicel Corp, a rival air bag inflator maker whose main businesses are in synthetic resins, chemicals and plastics, earlier raised its full-year profit forecasts after strong sales of its main products in the first half. Shares in Daicel, formed from a 1919 merger of eight regional celluloid manufacturers, have jumped by as much as a quarter in the past two weeks - valuing the company at over $4.1 billion - on hopes it can win business away from Takata. But senior managing executive officer Masumi Fukuda told reporters in Osaka that Daicel was not currently in talks on new air bag inflator orders. "At this time, we are not in any new discussions with our customers like Honda. There's no discussions at all right now," he said. Valient Market Research, headed by a former Takata employee, predicts Takata's share of the global air bag-inflator market will halve by 2020, with Daicel's market share jumping to 24 percent, from 16 percent now.  EJECTOR SEATS AND SHOTGUNS Daicel, which includes its inflator business in the pyrotechnic devices division along with parts for fighter jet ejector seats, missile components and shotgun cartridges,     pushed up its full-year operating profit forecast to 47 billion yen, up 24 percent on last year. It now sees net profit of 28.5 billion yen in the year to next March. Daicel doesn't disclose how much its inflators business contributes to overall sales, but the pyrotechnic devices division is expected to make up close to a fifth of total revenue this year. Fukuda said there was "no point" in Daicel rushing to increase capital spending on air bags without more information on the related recalls, noting it would be difficult for other companies to replace those made by Takata. By most financial metrics, Takata is the worst performer among more than 100 Japanese auto parts makers. Apart from its steep share price decline, which has chopped its market value back to a little over $1.1 billion, Takata's forward price/earnings ratio of more than 75 is the highest in the industrial sector in Japan, according to Thomson Reuters SmartEstimates. The company's operating margins also rank bottom in the sector, as does its return on equity, at minus 25 percent in the April-June quarter. Shares in Daicel, which reported earnings during market hours, closed down 2 percent, while Takata, which reported after the market's close, fell 1.4 percent. Tokyo's benchmark Nikkei slipped 0.9 percent.   (Additional reporting by Yoshiyuki Osada in OSAKA, Umesh Desai and Shilpa Murthy; Editing by Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Francois LenoirJean-Claude Juncker, the new European Commission president, was Luxembourg's prime minister between 1995 and 2013.The International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) this morning revealed the details of hundreds of secret tax deals made between global companies and the government of Luxembourg.  The private deals, which appear to have saved more than 300 companies millions of dollars in tax, are completely legal in Luxembourg. Here are the 310 companies — which include Pepsi and AIG — named by the ICIJ in their database of leaked documents, which includes 548 private tax rulings and corporation tax returns. We suggest heading over to the database for more context — it's a fantastic resource.   Here's the full list (twenty-seven more company names are expected come over the next month): 2PCT3iAbbott LaboratoriesABN Amro GroupAbris Capital PartnersAbry PartnersABS - CBN Broadcasting CorporationAbu Dhabi Investment AuthorityAccentureACE GroupAcergy Group (now Subsea 7)Advent International CorporationAEA InvestorsAHW Capital ManagementAIGAlexander EriksenAlfa Group ConsortiumAllco Finance GroupAmazonAMB Property CorporationAmcon Allied Equity HoldingsAmeriprise FinancialAMP Capital Investorsde Spoelberch FamilyAozora BankApax PartnersGuardian Media GroupApex Capital ManagementApollo Global ManagementAppleArcapitaArch Capital GroupArchangel Diamond CorporationArison GroupArtal GroupÄrztekammer Westfalen LippeAtomicoAudley Capital AdvisorsAvenue Capital GroupAvery Dennison CorporationAVIVAAXA GroupBabcock &amp; BrownBalderton CapitalBall CorporationBaloise GroupBanca Delle Marche GroupBanca Popolare Dell'Emilia RomagnaBanco BradescoBanco Itaú (now Itaú Unibanco)Banque Martin MaurelBaring Private Equity AsiaBayerische LandesbankBAYTEX Energy CorpBC PartnersBelforBjarne BorgBlackstone GroupBluebay (now Royal Bank Of Canada)BNP Paribas / Crédit AgricoleBoston Consulting GroupBridgepointBrookfield Asset ManagementBucher Industries GroupBurberry GroupCargillCarlyle GroupCatalyst Investment ManagersCB Richard Ellis GroupCenterbridge PartnersCharterhouse Capital PartnersChateau De BerneCheyne Capital ManagementChina Petrochemical Corporation (Sinopec)China Yunnan Metallurgical GroupCIRCORCITCOCitigroupCliffs Natural ResourcesCNP AssurancesCoachCommerzbank AGCompanhia Brasileira De DistribuiçãoCOMPASS GroupCordea SavillsCovidien GroupCredit SuisseDamovo GroupDawnay, Day &amp; Co.Dean FoodsDelff ManagementDevelopers Diversified Realty CorporationDNB Nor GroupDoughty HansonDraper Fisher JurvetsonDST SystemsState Street GroupDubai International CapitalDUET GroupDysonEFG GroupEMULEXEncore Consumer CapitalEnglefield Capital (now Bregal Capital)EQTEquity Trust (now Doughty Hanson)ESO Capital GroupEuroholdEuropean Property InvestorsEUSA Pharma (now Jazz Pharmaceuticals)EVRAZ GroupExperianFairfax Financial HoldingsFedEx CorpFidelityField Point GroupFinancière LafayetteFinmeccanica GroupFonciere IneaForesight GroupFoster WheelerFoyer GroupFREO GroupFriends ProvidentFung GroupFuture FundG.J. HanninkGategroupGazpromGE GroupGovernment Of The Emirate Of Abu DhabiGigamedia Limited GroupGildemeister GroupGlanbiaGlaxoSmithKlineGolden Gate CapitalGolding Capital PartnersGoodman GroupGraymont GroupGreat Atlantic &amp; Pacific Tea CompanyGroupe Caisse D'Epargne / Groupe Banque PopulaireGroupe LCF Rothschild (now Groupe Edmond De Rothschild)Groupe RothschildGruppo Banca SellaHarbinger GroupHauck &amp; AufhauserHealth Alliance GroupHeinzHenderson GroupHG CapitalHideal PartnersHighland Capital PartnersHinesHNA GroupHome Credit GroupHSBCHutchison GroupHypo Real Estate GroupIAMICAPIceberg QapitalIK Investment PartnersIKEAInformaIntelsatIntergeniaInternational Flavors &amp; FragrancesIntesa Sanpaolo GroupInvestcorp / BarclaysIVG ImmobilienJ Chahine CapitalJ.C. FlowersJardine Matheson GroupJER PartnersJones Lang LasalleJ.P. MorganJulius Baer GroupKaupthing Bank (now Arion Banki)KBL Lombard International AssuranceKing Street Capital ManagementKnight BusinessKohlerLandesbank Baden-WürttembergLangres Investment LimitedLehman BrothersLi Family TrustsLion CapitalLivingstone BrothersLombard OdierLubrizol (now Berkshire Hathaway)LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis VuittonMacquarie GroupMark IV IndustriesMaus FreresMcGraw-Gill CompaniesMercapital (now N+1 Group)Merrill LynchSATPO GroupMETTLER-TOLEDOMeyer BergmanMilliporeMontaguMoorfield GroupMYLANNavistar / CaterpillarNew Gulf EngineeringNikko Cordial Securities (now SMBC Nikko Securities)Nippon Sheet GlassNordic CapitalNordsonNorthern &amp; ShellOaktree Capital ManagementOffice DepotOlayan Investments Company EstablishmentOlympus Capital AsiaPacific Century GroupPALA InvestmentsPalamon Capital PartnersPaloma IndustriesPanorama CapitalPaul CapitalPepsi Bottling GroupPermiraPerry CapitalProcter &amp; GambleProspector Offshore DrillingProvidence Equity PartnersPrudentialPublic Sector Pension Investment BoardQUAD-C PartnersQuilvestRamiusReckitt BenckiserResoRMK Timberland GroupRockspringRosebud Real EstateROWAN CompaniesRubus InternationalSanpaolo Group (now Intesa Sanpaolo Group)SBERBANKSCHAWKSchrodersShip Trust / Tree TrustShireSignaSISK GroupSkandinaviska Enskilda BankenSOCFINSociété D'administration Et De Gestion Atlantas SAGASportfive GroupSR TechnicsStabilusSTAPLESSTAR Capital PartnersStarwood CapitalSun CapitalSwire GroupSYKES EnterprisesTDR CapitalTele ColumbusTele2 GroupTemenos GroupTEVA Pharmaceutical IndustriesThe Heesen FamilyTiger Global ManagementTiger PartnersTimberlandTINICUMTITAN InternationalTMD FrictionTower 2008 Charitable TrustTowerbrook Capital PartnersTrafalgar OverseasTyco GroupUBI BancaUBM GroupUBSUnibanco Brazil (now Itaú Unibanco)Unicorn Investment BankUnicredit GroupUnited America Indemnity (now Global Indemnity)United Technologies CorporationUPLINE GroupValue-CallVastned Offices / Industrial NVVerizonVermilion Energy TrustVeronis Suhler StevensonVers.Werk Der Zahnärztekammer Westf. LippeVistec Electronic Beam Lithography GroupVitec GroupVitruvian PartnersViva GroupVKGPVodafoneVolkswagen GroupVTS GroupWarner Chilcott (now Actavis)WE GroupWeather InvestmentsWeatherford InternationalWendel GroupWGZ BankWhite Mountains Insurance GroupWolseleyWynnchurch CapitalX-riteYamana GoldYork Capital Management FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Francois LenoirRevelations about Luxembourg's tax system are likely to have a political impact on Jean Claude Junker.Jean-Claude Junker, the newly-elected president of the European Commission, may face extra pressure after a group of investigative journalists revealed on Wednesday that hundreds of companies appear to have negotiated secret tax-cutting deals with Luxembourg. Juncker was prime minister of Luxembourg for 18 years, between 1995 and 2013.  According to leaked documents obtained by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ), the shady negotiations allegedly saved some of the world's biggest companies, including Pepsi, HSBC, Amazon, and IKEA, millions of dollars that would otherwise have been paid in tax.  The private rulings have left some companies paying just a fraction of a percentage point in tax on the earnings they register in Luxembourg. In once case, the Belgian activities of 1,600 companies are registered to just one building. Here's a full list of every company named in the tax ruling documents. The full article from ICIJ is here. It contains the details of private tax rulings for individual companies negotiated with the state, known as "comfort letters." It appears that many of the deals were crafted under Junker's term: Juncker, Luxembourg’s top leader when many of the jurisdiction’s tax breaks were crafted, has promised to crack down on tax dodging in his new post, but he has also said he believes his own country’s tax regime is in “full accordance” with European law.  The ICIJ continues: Adding a political twist to the Brussels probes is Juncker’s rise to the presidency of the European Commission. As Luxembourg’s prime minister, he signed into law the provision that allows companies to write off 80 percent of royalty income from intellectual property. In a speech in July in Brussels, Juncker promised to “fight tax evasion and tax dumping… We will try to put some morality, some ethics, into the European tax landscape.” But he also recently told German television: “No one has ever been able to make a convincing and thorough case to me that Luxembourg is a tax haven. Luxembourg employs tax rules that are in full accordance with European law.” It might well be the case that Luxembourg's tax system is perfectly legal under European law, but it's hard to imagine that it's helped to "put some morality" into the system.  Either way, this does not look good for Junker who is only four days into his five-year term as European Commission president. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe headquarters of the European Central Bank (ECB) are pictured in FrankfurtBy Eva Taylor FRANKFURT (Reuters) - The European Central Bank is set to stick to the policy path laid out over the summer when it meets on Thursday, waiting for its stimulus to unfold before considering further steps. The November policy meeting takes place against a backdrop of meager growth prospects for the euro zone and mounting discomfort among Governing Council members over ECB President Mario Draghi's leadership style. Reuters reported on Tuesday that national central bankers in the euro area plan to challenge Draghi over what they see as his secretive management style and erratic communication. But little to no action is expected on further stimulus. "Recent data has been weak and the pressure on the ECB to add more monetary stimulus has risen further. Yet, we think the ECB is in a 'wait and see' mode now and do not expect new policy measures or major new guidance to be provided," said UBS economist Reinhard Cluse. To keep the euro zone from slipping into deflation, the ECB has started pumping more money into the banking system through purchases of private debt and offers of long-term loans, aiming to boost its balance sheet by up to 1 trillion euros. There is growing doubt whether its current measures will be enough, but the ECB is expected to wait until it gets a clearer view of the economy and the impact of its asset purchases and four-year loans to banks before adding further stimulus. "My sense is that it's not sufficient and that we will see the ECB stepping up and buying corporate bonds," said Moody's chief economist Mark Zandi, pointing to next year. Draghi's comments during the post-policy meeting news conference will be scrutinized for clues on what may trigger further policy steps. Many economists are looking towards December when the ECB will update its economic projections. The December macroeconomic projections are produced jointly by experts from the national central banks and the ECB. The Bundesbank, central bank of the bloc's largest economy, conceded in October its own growth forecasts would no longer be met. ECB staff in September forecast growth of 0.9 percent this year and 1.6 percent in 2015, with inflation reaching 1.4 percent in 2016 - below its medium term target of just under 2 percent. Inflation stood at 0.4 percent in October. "The ECB will have to slash its staff projections for growth and inflation substantially in December. That will be a strong argument for loosening policy further," said Berenberg chief economist Holger Schmieding. He pointed to a probability of at least 60 percent that the ECB would step up its stimulus in December, probably by widening its asset purchases to include corporate bonds. More drastic measures in the form of outright purchases of sovereign bonds - as deployed by other major central banks to boost their economies - still remain distant in the euro zone, mainly due to political hurdles, especially in Germany. Austrian Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny also struck a cautious tone about buying government bonds, saying the ECB should not be swayed by market pressure and should not be expected to pull a rabbit out of its hat at each policy meeting.  (Editing by Jeremy Gaunt) FREE AppDownload
