In November 2012, I was interviewed by Joe Weisenthal at Business Insider. One of my comments during our discussion on state and local governments was:  At the time that was way out of the consensus view. And a couple of months later California announced a balanced budget, see The California Budget SurplusThe situation has improved since then. Here is the most recent update from California State Controller John Chiang: Controller Releases December Cash Update State Controller John Chiang today released his monthly report covering California's cash balance, receipts and disbursements in December 2013. Revenues for the month totaled $10.6 billion, surpassing estimates in the state budget by $2.3 billion, or 27.7 percent. Total revenues for the fiscal year-to-date were $2.5 billion ahead (6.4 percent) of budget estimates. "Revenues for the first half of the fiscal year are well ahead of estimates and reflect a surging economy fueled by a boom in technology, rising exports, improving consumer confidence, and a new housing upswing," said Chiang. This is just one state, but I expect local and state governments (in the aggregate) to add to both GDP and employment in 2014. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonHenry Kravis of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co. (KKR) is out with its outlook for 2014. "We believe that we are now entering the global synchronous phase of a long but bumpy recovery process that started in 2009," wrote Henry McVey, KKR's Head of Global Macro &amp; Asset Allocation. "However, unlike many other synchronized global recoveries, developed market central banks are—in aggregate—likely to remain accommodative in an attempt to offset some of the inherent volatility that accompanies de-leveraging cycles. Against this macro backdrop, our asset allocation view for 2014 is that investors should “Stay the Course,” retaining key overweight positions in global equities and alternatives, including private credit, special situations and real assets." Here are McVey's macro themes and tactical asset allocation opportunities: Here's a summary of the firm's 2014 targets: A massive run-up in prices and an above-average price-earnings ratio have many concerned that the stock market may have gotten ahead of itself. KKRWhile the logic may be sound, the historical evidence shows that stocks can go higher and earnings multiples can expand further. Indeed, 2013's 29.6% surge represent the 12th strongest year for stocks since 1900. And on average, the stock market has returned an average 7.6% after a 20%+ year, which compares to an average 5.1% after all years. (See exhibit 44 to the right.) "On the multiple front, we are using just north of 16.5x to reflect our view that real rates are likely to remain positive over the remainder of this economic cycle," said McVey. "Indeed, ...investors tend to place a significantly higher multiple on stocks when real rates turn positive as they have just done. Moreover, given that we expect slightly higher GdP growth on a go-forward basis in the 2014-2016 period, we gain comfort that some additional multiple expansion may be warranted. That said, we think the 17.9x projected multiple that typically accompanies a 2-3% 5-year trailing GdP environment may be too ambitious given the sizeable risk premium associated with exiting the historic amount of Fed-driven liquidity in the system." While McVey is bullish on U.S. stocks, he actually see greater opportunity abroad: From a regional perspective, our view for 2014 is to have over- weight positions in Asia and in Europe, while we are equal-weighted the U.S. and Latin America in our target asset allocation. Key to our thinking is that, despite the strong increase in Japan during 2013, the stock market has actually gotten cheaper in absolute terms (i.e., EPS has increased more than prices; meanwhile, consensus annual EPS growth for 2014 is a solid 19%). We are also now more constructive on china (consensus EPS is for growth of 14%). In the euro area, we expect earnings to grow a full 21% year- over-year. by comparison, in the U.S. and Latin America, we expect earnings to grow 9% and 13-15%, respectively. This is just scratching the surface of McVey's report. Read the whole thing at KKR.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuya ShinoFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Now Is A Great Time To Be Talking About Rebalancing Your Portfolio (The Wall Street Journal)  "We're in the middle phase of a long-term bull market in which stock returns have been incredibly high, and bond returns slightly negative," writes John Rafal of Connecticut-based Essex Financial Services in a new WSJ column. This is a good time for advisors to talk to clients about rebalancing their portfolios.  "If a client is overweight in stocks, I suggest repositioning those assets into one of three categories of fixed income. Category one is the safest: bonds with short-term maturities and durations. Category two is what I call "strategic income": a mix of high yield, floating rate, lower quality corporate, and agency bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and a diversified mix of income. You could add in some equities with high yields like preferred stocks, convertible bonds, and master limited partnerships. The third, and riskiest, category contains alternatives like managed futures and long-short equities." 2014 Could Be The Opposite Of 2013 With An Accelerating Economy And Challenging Investment Growth (Gluskin Sheff)  "If 2013 was a year of economic softness and equity market strength, via substantial P/E multiple expansion, it stands to reason that 2014 could end up being the exact opposite — an accelerating economy and a challenging investment year," writes Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg  in his latest note. But economic growth is only part of the picture. Sentiment is very high, and with the VIX at 12 it suggests some complacency. Valuations are "richly priced" though not "bubbly."  And going into Q4 "the big bet here is on further significant margin expansion to carry the day," he writes. "Indeed for 2014 as a whole, the bottom-up consensus view is that we will see 10% EPS growth with just 4% sales growth. It's not impossible, but is still enough of a disconnect to make me a tad uncomfortable using it as a base-case scenario." Citi Is Telling Its Super-Rich Clients To Consider Illiquid Investments (CNBC)  Investors are focusing too much on liquid assets and this is hurting their long-term returns, according to a new outlook published by Citi Private Bank. "Have investors raised their risk tolerance too much while reducing their liquidity preference too little?" the report co-authored by Global Chief Investment Strategist Steven Wieting and others asked. "The value of select less-liquid investments may be underestimated." "With higher potential returns, greater control, and the ability to participate in strategies unavailable in public markets, illiquid investments can potentially offer a premium to liquid investments and add material value to a balanced portfolio, especially when consistently implemented," they added. Private equity and real estate are expected to offer an annualized return of 11.9% over the next ten years. This compares with 3.4% projected returns for developed market corporate credit and 6.7% for developed market large-cap stocks over the same period. Here's The Advice Goldman Sachs Is Giving Its Millionaire Clients (Goldman Sachs)  Goldman Sachs' Sharmin Mossavar-Rahmani and Brett Nelson are recommending that the firm's private wealth clients "stay fully invested at their strategic allocation to U.S. equities." Despite recent chatter of a stock market bubble Mossavar-Rahmani and Nelson don't see a bubble.  "We believe that having a long-term investment horizon is particularly important at this time because it gives our clients a comparative advantage over other investors whose investment horizons are hampered by institutional constraints such as quarterly reporting periods or public finance considerations," Mossavar-Rahmani and Nelson write. "In addition, the current monetary policy environment of zero interest rates makes cash and high-quality fixed income assets much less attractive over the next one and five years, which, in turn, increases the attractiveness of equities." The Average Hedge Fund These Days Is Basically An Overpriced Index Fund (Morgan Stanley)  One of the arguments in favor of index mutual funds is their low fee, compared with the fees charged by hedge funds. The latter charge 2% and typically take another 20% of profits. But Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker points out that "hedge funds in aggregate are essentially long the S&amp;P 500." This chart shows the correlation between the S&amp;P 500 and a broad equity hedge fund index. A correlation of 1 suggests the two are in sync. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Prices of durable goods even rose 0.4 percent – the first increase since 1985. Even wages are inching higher, and that’s saying something. Pay has been so stubbornly flat in Japan that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has taken to repeatedly imploring firms to start paying their workers more. And they might even be listening. Along with durable goods, wages were up 0.4 percent year-over-year in November, the first increase in six months. Credit Suisse economists Hiromichi Sharakawa and Takashi Shiono think the recent price increases may be significant enough that some people may have entered the labor force simply to maintain their current standard of living. In noting a recent jump in the number of people working in sectors such as retail and health care, which rely heavily on part-time workers, the economists speculated that “an increased number of housewives may have taken on part-time jobs.” But one month of rising wages doesn’t make a trend. Wages have risen for a time and then dropped right back into negative territory on several occasions since 2008. As for the CPI, Credit Suisse’s economists believe retailers may have raised prices in anticipation of a flood of customers before the much-publicized planned increase in Japan’s value-added tax this April. If they’re right about that, the positive inflation trend may have a limited shelf life. One trend that does have legs is the decline in the value of the yen. The Japanese currency is 6.6 percent weaker against the dollar and 7.2 percent weaker against the euro than at the beginning of October, which has made imports of food, energy and durable goods more expensive. That, in turn, contributed to the higher-than-expected inflation Japan registered in October and November. But the weakening yen can only do so much more for inflation on its own. “Year-on-year yen depreciation is set to provide less of a boost for the CPI going forward,” the economists wrote. “If the 8 percent consumption tax takes effect before wages have developed any significant upward momentum, a weakening of consumer demand will probably make it difficult for retailers to keep hiking their prices.” Given all of the above, Abenomics is surely going to need a shot in the arm this year. On the fiscal front, the government has already obliged. In December, Japan approved a budget of ¥95.9 trillion, a 3.6 percent increase of previous spending plans. What’s more, Credit Suisse expects positive news on the monetary policy front as early as February. “The Bank of Japan would ideally like to see the yen weaken further before the tax increase, thereby boosting corporate profits sufficiently to encourage pay raises in upcoming annual labor contract negotiations,” the economists wrote, referring to the nationwide talks between unionized workers and managers that are set to begin in March. While the BoJ could go so far as to start buying real estate investment trusts or exchange-traded funds in the equity market, the economists think the bank’s most likely move will be to increase monthly purchases of government bonds from ¥7.5 trillion to ¥10.5 trillion. Will it make any difference? Shirakaway and Shiono aren’t sure. Credit Suisse’s analyses find little evidence that growing the monetary base has caused an increase in either actual inflation or inflation expectations, and in a December report entitled “BoJ Sailing Deeper Into Uncharted Water?”, the economists ponder whether a new round of stimulus has any chance of doing so. The main problem, as they see it, is that few seem to believe the bank will be able to hit its 2 percent inflation target, regardless of whether there’s new monetary stimulus or not. Judging from how inflation-linked bonds are trading, the market is forecasting that inflation will plateau at about 1 percent after the April tax increase takes effect. Shirakawa and Shiono also note that households appear to be anticipating even weaker inflation than that. Herein lies the problem: Both companies and individuals decide how to spend and invest based on their expectations of future prices. The entire purpose of setting a target is to influence market psychology. If most people think the target is a mirage, then that outlook can be self-fulfilling. And then there are more technical issues to consider. The supply of government bonds the central bank can purchase from participating commercial banks is getting a little thin, particularly those with durations between five and 10 years. As a result, the central bank has been increasingly buying bonds almost immediately after they’re issued, rather than from participating banks. The central bank owns some 55 percent of the supply of a 10-year bond issued in November, for example. “Questions over the practicality of the Bank of Japan purchasing more Japanese government bonds than it is already purchasing suggest that policy execution risk is worth watching closely,” the economists write. Shirakawa and Shiono expect the central bank to ramp up its bond purchases in early 2014, and they think it’s the right move. But there’s no telling what financial markets will make of such a move – raising the question of whether it will make any difference. Abenomics was launched with a clear vision and it had both quick and marked results. But the government’s next move is by no means obvious. There’s no question that Abenomics needs a booster shot. It’s just no longer clear what the best medicine is. FREE AppDownload
U.S. job creation did better in the second half of the year, both in terms of the number of jobs created and their dispersion between the high and low wage sectors.  On average, the U.S. created 184,000 private sector jobs in 2013. Over the course of the year, however, taking all factors into account, the U.S. jobs economy earned something less than a “gentleman’s C” as a grade.  Here is a summary of why: The following table serves as a useful report card on the Establishment Survey portion of the 2013 jobs picture: Westwood Capital Hours and Wages As the above table illustrates, the raw job counts are just the tip of the iceberg in this report card because of what happened in 2013 with regard to wage levels.  Two of the sectors which added the second and third most jobs in 2013—Education and Health in the high wage category, and Retail Trade, in the low wage category—saw wages fall relative to headline CPI, and substantially so relative to core CPI. The largest sector creating jobs in 2013 was, not surprisingly therefore, the lowest paying sector in the economy—Leisure and Hospitality—which at year end paid an average wage that would equate to full time earnings of less than $25,000 a year.  And that assumes full time employment.  Keep in mind, that out of the 135.6 million non-farm jobs in the U.S. at year-end 2013, 26 million—19%—were part time.  In the Leisure an Hospitality category, the average employee worked only 25.9 hours per week at year-end (the lowest of any jobs category), meaning that the average of the 14.3 million workers in that sector brought home $18,397 per annum. The penury-level Leisure and Hospitality sector, together with the two sectors in which real wages fell in 2013—Education and Health, and Retail Trade—accounted for 1,098,000 of the 2,213,000 jobs created in 2013, just a hairs breadth away from 50% of the total.  Add in the 416,000 jobs created in 2013 in the remaining low wage sector—Administrative and Waste Services—and you have 68.4% of all jobs created in 2013 being in sectors in which labor has pretty much no leverage. Of further interest, looking at the weighted average of the high wage sectors, we saw wage growth before inflation decelerate during the year to 1.96% year-over-year as of December 2013, from a pace of 2.24% YoY as of June 2013. We believe that if congress is unable/unwilling to restore the long term unemployment benefits that would otherwise have flowed to between four and five million people through the course of the current year, it is reasonable to assume that a substantial number of such individuals will find themselves needing to take any job at any wage in order to survive.  The disinflationary forces affecting wages, as discussed above, would therefore be exacerbated.  Before moving on to the Population Survey portion of the jobs data for 2013, the table below sets forth the jobs creation statistics for the month of December 2013, the only month of the year that saw net erosion in the high wage sectors as a whole: Westwood Capital Participation, Unemployment and Demographic Groupings The Population Survey portion of the jobs statistics yielded some interesting insights during 2013.  As noted above, the labor force participation rate continued to decline.  While the civilian non-institutional population (those 16 and over and not in schools, the army or prisons, “CNIP”) grew by 2.4 million people during 2013, the number of people in the labor force declined by about 550,000. Not only is the U.S. economy proving incapable of absorbing increases in its working age population, but it is losing ground…and not because overwhelming prosperity is encouraging people towards lives of leisure. During 2013, the labor force participation rate fell 8/10ths of 1% to 62.8% from 63.6%. The LFPR is now back to levels not seen since the late 1970’s, before the surge of women entering the labor force, as illustrated by the below chart: Chart AWestwood Capital The U.S. economy employed—full time and part time—a total of 58.6% of the CNIP, a number that was the same percentage as at the end of 2012.  Private sector jobs—again, full time and part time—employed 115 million people, 48% of the CNIP.  Relative to total population, at the end of 2013 we had 118.5 million full time employees, and 26 million part time employees, supporting a nation of 316 million people. So who are these working people? Well, they are progressively older than they used to be.  One would expect that, if the LFPR were declining so precipitously because more people were retiring “voluntarily” that the employment/population ratio (“EPR”) for the 55 years and older category of employees would be declining as well.  Not only has it not done so, but the EPR for workers aged 55 and older was, on average, higher in 2013 than it was during the Great Recession and any other time prior thereto.  Older Americans are hanging on to their jobs for dear life in the post-recession world of diminished or non-existent retirement wealth. While data is not yet sufficient to prove empirically that older workers are proving less rigid when it comes to accepting lower wages in order to keep working (often through taking positions for which they are over-qualified), we suspect this is the case. On the brighter side, 2013 saw an improvement in U.S. youth unemployment—the EPR for the 16 to 24 year old age group, which was decimated as a result of the Great Recession (falling nearly 10 points), powered back to its highest level since.  The 25 to 34 year old bracket was also at post-recession EPR highs, although the recovery was not as dramatic as that of the younger group. But all this came at the expense of the 45 to 54 year old cadre, where the EPR hasn’t really budged since the end of the recession.  This latter group is in its prime earning years, meaning that it is expensive to employ and therefore vulnerable in an economy that is apparently struggling with downward wage pressures. Conclusion Progress was made on the jobs front in 2013, but a great deal of what was said about the U.S. jobs picture throughout the year—and, especially, in the fourth quarter of the year—was somewhat enhanced by what our friend, Peter Tchir, would call a healthy dose of “Hopium.” We formed 2.2 million jobs in the private sector in 2013. We even produced 10% of those jobs in the goods producing sectors, in which the U.S. faces stifling global competition. And, if you ignore December’s numbers (or believe fervently that they will be materially revised upwards) the pace and composition of job creation picked up after Labor Day and even defied the dislocations of a shutdown of our federal government for half a month. What was said about the U.S. jobs picture in the media, by some market analysts and by the Obama administration was, however, more talk than walk.  As much as we feel that extraordinary monetary policy, such as quantitative easing, has passed its “sell by date” and is of little benefit (and perhaps of considerable detriment) and this point, it would nevertheless be a mistake for monetary policy makers to—for example—read into the declining headline unemployment rate anything that would lead the more hawkish among them to believe we are experiencing labor market tightness. The wage data, the complexion of the job formation, and the falling participation rate indicates a labor market awash in oversupply.  With disinflation rampant in the U.S., and throughout the advanced nations, and with the numbers of those looking more aggressively for a job at any wage likely to grow in 2014 as the result of fiscal policy, the report card for 2013 should be viewed as very cautionary. This is still a very fragile, demand-deficient world in which we find ourselves. This article originally appeared at Westwood Capital.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Business Insider is looking for paid interns to join our editorial team this spring! As an intern at Business Insider, there's no getting coffee, filing, or making copies. Our interns are an integral part of our team. Many of our current writers and editors started as interns. BI Interns spend their time doing meaningful work: researching, writing, pitching and producing features -- even breaking news if the timing's right. Interns are encouraged to work full-time (40 hours a week) if their schedule allows. Other perks? We have tons of free snacks and drinks, a great office environment, and a ping-pong table where we hold quarterly tournaments. When it comes to qualifications, a journalism background and experience writing for a news site always helps, as do copy-editing skills and light HTML and Photoshop experience. Knowledge of social media and previous writing experience are both useful, too. Please send your resume and three journalism clips to internships@businessinsider.com. Please briefly describe which BI section(s) interest you most and why. (Don't know what our sections are? Check out the nav bar on the home page and our masthead.) And, please note: this internship requires that you work in our Manhattan office. The internship term runs from January - July, with some flexibility on start and end dates. Interested in a journalism internship but have never heard of Business Insider? Here's some reading on our company and where we're headed.  FREE AppDownload
Google just made a big, bold acquisition, scarfing up red-hot home-automation gadget company Nest for $3.2 billion. Nest was founded by the guy who designed Apple's iPod. Nest products look like Apple products. Nest products are beloved by people who love Apple products. Nest products are sold in Apple stores. Nest, in short, looked like a perfect acquisition for Apple, which is struggling to find new product lines to expand into and has a mountain of cash rotting away on its balance sheet with which it could buy things. But Apple didn't buy Nest. Google did. And this appears to continue a pattern in which — in the bitter head-to-head battle between Apple and Google — Google is fixing its weaknesses (hardware) much faster than Apple is fixing its own weaknesses (software and services). At first glance, in other words, it appears that Google's aggressiveness has once again caught Apple snoozing. And now a company that looked to be a perfect future division of Apple is gone for good. Nest, of course, isn't the only company that Google has snapped up lately. Kim Bhasin of the Huffington Post just tweeted this list of "things Google has bought lately," which is from Wikipedia. As you can see, over the past year, Google has bought no fewer than 21 companies. In addition to home automation products, Google has bought and is now developing and/or selling, among other things... Wikipedia, Kim Bhasin FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Larry DowningA protester screams at JP Morgan Chase and Company Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon as he testifies before the U.S. Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee hearing on "A Breakdown in Risk Management: What Went Wrong at JPMorgan Chase?" on Capitol Hill in Washington, June 13, 2012.JP Morgan will announce its Q4 2013 earnings Tuesday morning at 7:00 am EST, with a conference call to follow at 8:30 am EST, and analysts are split on whether or not the bank's legal troubles will harm its bottom line. According to Bloomberg, the Wall Street consensus is that the bank will report a quarterly revenue of $23.5 billion, down from $25.1 billion at the same time in 2012. Naturally the question on everyone's mind is how the company will fair given the mountain of legal fees it has paid out to the government for variety of transgressions — from mortgage fraud dating back to the financial crisis, to its failure to report account irregularities with its former client Bernie Madoff, to the London Whale trading loss. All told, this year JP Morgan has paid enough in fines to take care of the New York Yankees' payroll for 20 years, according to the NYT. As a result, last quarter JP Morgan reported its first quarterly loss ever under CEO Jamie Dimon. That was due to non-recurring items (litigation expense and reserve losses), which took the bank's earnings per share down to $-0.17 per share from $1.42 earnings per share.  Since then, the bank has paid a $13 billion settlement to settle government charges that it sold bad mortgages, as well as $4.5 billion to private investors in the bank's mortgage bonds. Last week, the bank paid the government an additional $1.7 billion to settle charges surrounding its relationship with Bernie Madoff. Just to name a few things. But JP Morgan has been preparing for this, and if you look at the stock price, which is up 27.5% year over year, it seems like shareholders have been too. In the bank's third quarter earnings announcement, management said the bank dug into its coffers and found $23 billion to put aside to deal with the over a dozen probes into its activities being conducted by regulators around the world. CFO Marianne Lake said the future would be "lumpy", but was confident the bank could handle it. So Wall Street is split on whether or not JP Morgan can shake this off. Credit Suisse is bearish on the stock, and thinks that a $600 million legal bill will significantly cut into JPM's operating earnings per share. Morgan Stanley, on the other hand, is bullish (via Benzinga): “Overweight JPM on expectations for improving credit, efficiency and client wallet share – all driving upward EPS revisions along with rising ROEs. Improving credit, share gain, capital return lift 2015 EPS 54% vs 2013. Together, these should boost ROE from 8.3% in 2013 to 11.3% in 2015. Not a word about legal issues — perhaps because they don't matter. We'll find out tomorrow. FREE AppDownload
FXDale Mortensen, who won the Nobel Prize for his research on supply and demand in the labor market, died last week at the age of 74, leaving economic academia without one of its foremost scholars of the past half century. His death also left Finley Edwards, another labor market researcher, without the star player on his fantasy economics team. An assistant professor at Colby College in Maine, Edwards is one of the more than 200 academics, grad students, and econ fans who have joined the IDEAS Fantasy Economics league, a new game housed by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. And only living economists can be on team rosters. It all began as an April Fools' joke on the blog of Christian Zimmermann, an assistant vice president in the St. Louis Fed's research department and the league's creator/commissioner. "One cannot short an economist," Zimmermann quipped then about his phony fantasy league. But after he hit publish, "I got emails saying, 'Hey this is actually a good idea. I want to participate,'" Zimmermann said. So he spent a weekend programming the game. Zimmermann oversees RePEc, a massive database of 1.5 million research documents that also puts out a popular ranking system of economists. RePEc tracks citations, number of downloads, and other metrics to reach its definitive author rankings. That meant that, for Zimmermann, creating a fantasy league out of RePEc's database was relatively simple. Just make a league that would allow players to chair their own virtual econ departments and staff them with the real economists that RePEc already scores. You can join the league by creating an author profile (Zimmermann figured most of the players will be academics themselves). Here's my home portal, where I can click on a variety of options. IDEASPlayers are given a random draw of economists distributed across the rankings. There's no "draft" and there's no real season — academia never starts and stops. Departments have 30 slots but only 20 can be activated for scoring, so everyone else rides the bench.  Other than that there aren't that many rules. Just no duplicates, dead economists, or owning yourself. Players are given 100 "utils" in which to buy and sell their economists on the open market. Let's go ahead and put Timothy J. Besley, a London School of Economics economist interested in political economy, on the open market. Besley has his own Wikipedia page so I'm going to start the bidding at 10 utils. My team: IDEASAlso, I've put in a bid for Robert M. Stern, of the University of Michigan. He was on the market for 16 utils. Stern's research has "focused on multilateral trade agreements and the economic effects of regional trading arrangements," according to his bio. I think he's a steal at 17 utils. IDEASEvery month, when RePEc's system updates, so do the fantasy league standings. As you can see, many players choose to go with a team alias as opposed to their visable author profile. IDEAS"In real life when you build a department, you want to hire people that are prospects," Zimmermann said. "In this fantasy league, it's just the same. You really want to acquire people that are going to be doing well in the next 10 years." In other words, you want the sleeper picks. Ask yourself: Who is going to cost 1 util and then put out some game-changing working papers? Edwards agrees that you have to look for the rising stars. "It's a Moneyball type strategy," he said. "Looking for undervalued economists and trying to invest, or trying to divest in overvalued economists." "As economists we're drawn to numbers and rankings," said Edwards, whose dead economist was automatically replaced with Columbia University's Pierre-Andre Chiappori. "It's a little bit of a chance to leverage the information you have." It's also about bragging rights. Zimmermann says he saw one economist boasting on Twitter that he was trading higher than another scholar who happened to be one of his major ideological opponents. And not unlike fantasy football, sometimes that one friend infuriatingly ends up with a crazy-unfair roster. "I signed up for the league, and I happened to get one of this year's Nobel Prize winners (Robert Shiller), so I immediately put him on the market," says Daryl Fairweather, a grad student at the University of Chicago.  "I haven't checked back into the website since then." FREE AppDownload
BI Intelligence has combed top trade publications and analyst reports to create our top 10 list of the trends that will shape digital payments in 2014. These are the predictions that either came up again and again, or that echoed our own analysis and data.  Here are the developments in the payments space to look out for: 1. NFC will die. Consumers will ultimately decide whether NFC will become popular, and so far the technology isn't proving compelling enough to spur widespread adoption. NFC allows a smartphone to communicate with a payment terminal at a physical store, via a brief tap. This allows for "walletless," or phone-powered payments. But tap-and-pay phone transactions aren't much more convenient than cash and credit cards. "Instead of swiping or using a PIN pad, they're tapping. How is that really better? How is that changing your life? People don't want that," says PayPal President David Marcus. We agree with Marcus: 2014 will be the year that NFC goes away as a real factor in the debate over the future of payments. Although it will carve out a role in some markets where it's already influential, such as China and South Korea. (See our report: "Mobile Is The Future Of Payments — Here's How Much Runway There Is For Growth.") 2. Bluetooth Low Energy will conquer retail. BLE is the NFC rival that really will revolutionize payments and commerce in 2014. The Bluetooth Low Energy communications frequency has a range of up to 50 meters and can be used for a host of applications including payments, peer-to-peer fund transfers, as well as notifications and offers as part of in-store loyalty and marketing campaigns. In a recent report, we discussed how beacons, which serve as BLE transmitters, can help create indoor communication systems for these purposes. From the perspective of the consumer, the technology is superior to NFC because it doesn't require close proximity for payments, and BLE-powered payments can happen nearly automatically — for example, as a consumer exits a store with their merchandise. This means that it can be more convenient than plastic credit cards, or cash. Bluetooth Low Energy is on over 200 million iOS devices already in conjunction with Apple's iBeacon platform, and many Android devices also support it. (See our report: "Beacons: What They Are, How They Work, And Why Apple's iBeacon Technology Is Ahead Of The Pack.") 3. Bitcoin hype will die down, and more will use it for what it was meant for — a means of global exchange. Bitcoin is not going to lose its volatility in the next year. The wild price oscillations will continue. So will the convoluted and technical debates about what it is and whether it's a harebrained scheme or not. But one thing will change: People will no longer talk just about Bitcoin's price, and they'll start to see it for what it was always meant to be: an online instrument for powering transactions and moving value. The infrastructure for bitcoin payments will grow more sophisticated, and platforms will proliferate that will eliminate transaction risk when two parties transact in bitcoins. So, individuals and businesses will be able to transact in bitcoins across the globe without worrying that the value will collapse before they can exchange it for another currency. It will become more common — though not yet mainstream — for e-commerce and physical retailers to accept bitcoins at point-of-sale. Click here for a free two week trial to BI Intelligence, and gain instant access to our morning newsletters and our data-driven reports covering the top trends in the digital payments and mobile payments industries.  BIIApple's outpacing competitors in number of accounts 4. Amazon will try to make friends with offline retailers, and offer them a payments platform. Late in 2013, Amazon reportedly acquired GoPago, a provider of mobile payments apps and compatible point-of-sale retail software. With the acquisition, it looks like Amazon may be planning to expand its payments offerings into the world of bricks-and-mortar retail. We think there is a good chance Amazon will release a competitively-priced payments solution targeted at bricks-and-mortar retailers sometime in the next year. Why would bricks-and-mortar retailers sign on for anything from Amazon, which is hardly the best friend of offline retail? Amazon may offer them insights into consumer behavior and shopping habits, or rock-bottom credit card-processing fees. After all, undercutting the competition on price terms — even at the cost of short-term profitability — has always been Amazon's way. BIIThe payments industry has seen a wave of deals5. The payments industry will consolidate and mature at a rapid pace, with a bevy of acquisitions and a handful of IPOs, including Square's. The initial disruption in online and offline payments has already taken place. We expect to see tons of acquisitions — of consumer-facing services and business-to-business players — as the biggest players in the space scoop up talent from across the industry. Possible acquisition targets include Stripe, Dwolla, LevelUp, Bill.com, and many others. 6. Carrier billing is going to explode in emerging markets. One of the biggest problems facing consumers in emerging markets is that they can't get access to credit or credit cards. Direct carrier billing solves this problem by allowing mobile users to add purchases to their mobile bills. Credit card companies aren't ready to move into many of these low-income markets yet, so carriers can get away with playing their role as payments networks and taking a big slice of revenue from developers who integrate carrier billing into their apps. Demand and lack of competition in these markets is going to lead to a bonanza, and big carriers in developed markets would be wise to increase their exposure to markets where carrier billing might take off. 7. Square will sputter as it tries to grow its point-of-sale market share and cross into e-commerce. Square is in no small part responsible for the disruption that is taking place in the offline payments space, and its success has largely grown out of powering transactions for small and medium-sized retailers with its software and simple hardware that transform tablets and phones into mobile cash registers. But competition is building for offline point-of-sale payments and gaining further POS market share will be an uphill battle. With Square Market, Square has also entered the already competitive e-commerce space. The company will struggle to achieve the same level of growth as it has achieved in prior years. Still, as we mentioned before, it will IPO before year's end. 8. The mobile wallet is going to be dramatically reconceived. Only 11% of people in the United States have used a mobile wallet, according to Forrester. We define a mobile wallet as an app or mobile site that collects a consumer's payment information and credit card numbers and helps them transact offline and online. Lots of wallet apps are nice from a design perspective, but there just isn't a very compelling reason to use them. Credit cards are still easier. In other words, there's a "convenience parity" problem. Mobile wallets have to become at least as convenient as credit cards and cash before they take the place of either. We think mobile wallets will succeed if they reinvent themselves as all-in-one apps that will integrate all of a consumer's shopping and finance needs into one place: rewards and loyalty programs, tickets and boarding passes, wish lists, spending trackers, personal budgeting programs, etc. One early example of this approach is Bluebird, an app-based debit card and personal finance platform created jointly by Wal-Mart and American Express. 9. Retail banks will also compete for mobile and online audiences with beefed up personal banking apps. The move toward mobile-mediated shopping and finance is altering the relationship between retail banks and their customers. In particular, the relationship is increasingly taking place online and on mobile rather than in physical banks. In order to differentiate themselves from competitors, banks will become interested in offering apps that go beyond just simply checking your balance, paying your credit card, and remote check deposit. They will try to build all-in-one multi-device payments and finance platforms similar to the mobile wallets described above. Why is this important? Because banks are not immune from disruption and disintermediation. Already, software-based startups like Simple are creating interfaces that basically act as a new layer between banks and their customers. (See our report: "The Mobile Banking Horse Race Has Only Just Begun, Here's How It's Shaping Up.") BIIE-commerce goes mobile10. Mobile commerce will account for a third of holiday shopping in 2014. Mobile commerce accounted for around 20% of e-commerce sales during the Black Friday weekend this year. As retailers release and improve their mobile apps, and tablets proliferate, we expect that mobile commerce is not only going to grow, but accelerate. Next holiday season we think one in every three dollars spent on online retail purchases will come through mobile devices. (See our report: "Retailers Are Driving Huge Increases In Mobile Shopping And Buying — This Is How.") Click here for a free two week trial to BI Intelligence, and receive our in-depth coverage, charts, and daily newsletters covering all the top trends in the payment industry.  Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
Overstock.com began accepting Bitcoin last Thursday. We'd previously reported they weren't going to start taking the digital currency as payment for another few months, so the announcement surprised a bunch of people. But reaction was swift: $130,000 worth of merchandise flew off the retailer's e-shelves on the first day. Now, Overstock shares with us some data about the purchases.  Most popular items purchased with Bitcoin: Overstock also provided us with data for all 50 states. We threw it into a spreadsheet and re-calculated to adjust by population stats (transactions per million residents). Then we created a map. Here's the states with the most Bitcoin transactions (on Overstock) per capita: Of course, this is just the beginning so there aren't tons of transactions yet, and it's just on one site (albeit a mass market one). But it's not surprising that the state whose motto is Live Free Or Die is t he most into the currency.Rob Wile, data via Overstock.com and U.S. Census  #transactions   FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
This week, Wall Street banks will report their fourth quarter earnings, starting with JP Morgan on Tuesday. Analysts aren't expecting this quarter to be as ugly as the last, but one bank may have a worse time than the others — Goldman Sachs. Last quarter Goldman missed expectations with a revenue of $6.72 billion where analysts expected $7.36 billion. It was the worst number the bank had reported since the Euro Crisis, in great part due to what analyst Brad Hintz at Sanford Bernstein called "a full scale routing" of trading revenue around the Street. The prospect of a Fed Taper scared investors to the sidelines this summer, and that hurt Goldman's bottom line a great deal. Those conditions no longer apply, but trading is still suffering on Wall Street for a variety of reasons — like the Volcker Rule's prohibition of proprietary trading, lower foreign exchange trading volume, a slump in commodities prices, and a low appetite for risk among investors. Basically, we're in a bad environment for trading houses. Goldman reports earnings on Thursday morning at 7:30 am EST, with a conference call to follow at 9:30 am EST. JP Morgan analyst Kian Abouhossein gave Goldman an "underweight" rating due to this environment. "We see GS as a clear winner in a more “cash-equity like” FICC world," he wrote. But that's not the world we're living in. In part, what the bank needs to turn its fortune around, Abouhossein wrote is a "...pick-up in performance of the capital markets, providing upside to both the investment banking capital markets business (especially fixed income) and the performance of Goldman Sachs’s assets under management." That may be coming, but it's not here yet. And it seems like, as a whole analysts agree around the Street — Q4 2013 will be uglier for Goldman than Q4 2012. According to estimates tracked by Bloomberg, Q4 2013 revenues to hit $7.7 billion, in Q4 2012 they hit $9.2 billion. Hintz wrote in a note last month that the Volcker would constrain Goldman's trading franchise and that "....higher funding costs, large liquidity pools, and longer tenure funding currently in place also limit Goldman's trading ROA (Return on Assets). " Citigroup analyst Keith Horotwitz told the Wall Street Journal that he sees Goldman's Fixed-Income Currency and Commodity (FICC) trading revenue declining by 21% from Q4 2012 to Q4 2013. This isn't to say that this trend won't harm other banks — Horowitz says that FICC trading revenue should decline an average of 11% across Bank of America, JP Morgan, and Goldman Sachs — it's just that no other major bank depends on this revenue the way Goldman does. All the major banks but Morgan Stanley have traditional retail operations. And Morgan Stanley had a stellar quarter in Q3 2013. Third quarter adjusted revenue came in at $8.1 billion also beating estimates of $7.659 billion, despite carnage on the trading side to the tune of a 43% dip in revenue. This is because CEO James Gorman veered the firm's model away from one that relies on trading revenue, and toward one that relies more heavily on revenue from its wealth management business. "Our strategy to combine a world class investment bank with the stability of the largest U.S. wealth management franchise and strong investment management is enabling us to deliver exceptional advice and execution for our clients as well as stronger returns for our shareholders," Gorman wrote in his letter last quarter. At JP Morgan, Abouhossein is "overweight" the stock for the same reason, which likely means there's a lot of schadenfreude at Morgan right now (given their deep rivalry with Goldman Sachs). In fact, given Goldman's reputation as the baddest bank around, there could be schadenfreude all over Wall Street come Thursday afternoon. Goldman has said time and time again that it's not about to change its business model. But as Bloomberg reports, shareholders are getting restless. They want the bank to declare a public profitability target, and it's the only major bank that hasn't done it. From Bloomberg: The company’s board of directors set a 10 percent return-on-equity target for top executives to earn their long-term bonuses, a level that even Blankfein has called “hardly aspirational..." “It does come up a lot with investors, how long do they have?” said Roger Freeman, a Barclays Plc (BARC) analyst in New York. “It’s a question of time -- whether the environment for dealers gets better fast enough to avoid being in a difficult position of having to put a target out there that’s meaningfully higher than where they’re at.” For what it's worth (quite a bit), over at Estimize, a site that aggregates buyside earnings estimates, Goldman is the only bank expected to underperform Wall Street estimates when it reports this week. So we'll see how this all goes on Thursday. Check out Estimize's chart below: Estimize     FREE AppDownload
ReutersCredit Suisse CEO Brady DouganCredit Suisse is now telling its junior level bankers to take Saturdays off, Bloomberg News reports citing an internal memo.   This has been a trend lately on Wall Street.  Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan and Bank of America have all decided to limit the amount of weekend work for their junior employees. Bank of America sent out a memo on Friday telling its young employees to take four weekend days off per month.  JPMorgan has granted its junior level bankers one "protected weekend" per month. Goldman Sachs was the first to tell its junior analysts have been told to take Saturdays off. What's more is their analysts won't be able to go to the office or log on from 9 p.m. Friday until 9 a.m. Sunday. The long hours young bankers put in on Wall Street has come under scrutiny after 21-year-old Bank of America intern Moritz Erhardt died last summer in student housing in London.  Unconfirmed reports said Erhardt had worked consecutive all-nighters.    While this makes life better for young bankers, it also forces their managers to be more disciplined about assigning work.   Young analysts will tell you that their superiors have a habit of dumping work on their desks at 7 p.m. on a Friday night subsequently ruining weekend plans.  That doesn't look like it's going to be the case anymore.  FREE AppDownload
Whiskey tipplers woke up to the huge news that Suntory — the Japanese whiskey of Lost in Translation fame — will buy American whiskey giant Beam Inc. Beam puts out two of the more famous American liquors, Jim Beam and Maker's Mark.  "Suntory is in Asia and, I think, believes it has some competency advantages in terms of Asian marketing and distribution," writes Slate's Matt Yglesias. "What it doesn't have is bourbon brands or facilities in the United States of America. Beam's got those, so together they can perhaps form a bourbon-exporting juggernaut." Surely some of that exporting will go to India. Take a look at this chart of global whiskey consumption from Goldman Sachs. While it's not per capital (and population helps), it gives you a good picture of how big whiskey has gotten in developing markets. Take a look: Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Erik De CastroNot good.It was a pretty intense day for investors today. There was tons of stock-specific news today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
German public policy group Heinrich Böell Foundation and Friends of the Earth have just released their annual publication Meat Atlas, which illustrates food trends around the world. The booklet informs consumers about meat production in different countries based on data from world organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), World Health Organization (WHO), and Gallup data, just to name a few. "In the rich North we already have high meat consumption. Now the poor South is catching up," Barbara Unmuessig, the foundation's president, told BBC. "Catering for this growing demand means industrialized farming methods: Animals are pumped full of growth hormones. This has terrible consequences on how animals are treated and on the health of consumers." The following charts (republished under a Creative Commons license) give a sense of how people consume meat around the world. This chart shows meat production around the world. Though the USA and Europe still produce plenty of meat products, the prices of feed, energy, and land are all becoming more expensive and the cost of producing industrial livestock is rising. Pigs and poultry are still doing well in the market since both species don't necessarily need a lot of feed and can be kept in confined spaces. Heinrich Böell FoundationMeat companies are growing thanks to mergers and acquisitions, and are expanding across countries and animal species. Today, there are ten major meat producers around the globe, four of which are based in the U.S.: Cargill ($33 billion in food sales a year), Tyson ($33 billion in food sales a year), Smithfield ($13 billion in food sales a year), and Hormel Foods ($8 billion in food sales a year). Heinrich Böell FoundationThe global demand for meat is growing, particularly in China and India, which could see an 80% boom in the meat sector by 2022 due to a new (and growing) middle class. Africans are also starting to eat more meat, though the supply and demand are still not quite what they are in other parts of the world. Heinrich Böell FoundationMeat production and consumption in the industrialized world have radically increased since 1950. Overall, however, meat consumption has stagnated. In the U.S. there has been a 9% drop in consumption from 2007 to 2012 thanks to trendy low-meat diets and growing concern from customers over where meat comes from. It could also be due to recent meat scandals, including horse meat marketed as beef. Heinrich Böell FoundationPoultry is the fastest growing segment of globalized livestock. By 2020, China's poultry production will increase 37%, Brazil's will increase 28%, and U.S. production will increase 16% due to growing consumption around the globe. In India, poultry consumption is expected to rise nearly tenfold to just below 10 million tons a year in 2050. Heinrich Böell FoundationOne reason poultry is so popular is the price. Producing poultry is cheaper than other types of meat because chickens are more efficient to feed than other livestock ,and there are few religious or cultural limitations to eating chicken. In 2011, an estimated 58 TRILLION chickens were slaughtered around the world — that's compared to roughly 1.4 trillion pigs and 300 million cattle. Heinrich Böell FoundationOnly a small percentage of the population in the U.S. and Europe describe themselves as vegetarians or vegans. It's much more popular in India since Buddhism and Hinduism share beliefs about rebirth and the importance nonviolence that leads people to reject the consumption of meat due to the slaughter of animals. Heinrich Böell FoundationAnd even though it's not as popular as meat consumption, people are becoming more interested in vegetarianism and veganism as lifestyle choices. Heinrich Böell FoundationThere could also be a shift in the future from animal protein to protein from aquatic plants or insects, as a recent United Nations report suggests. Insects are particularly efficient and high in protein. Heinrich Böell FoundationThe entire booklet is a fascinating read (and free to download). Head over to Heinrich Böell Foundation to take a look at the rest of the maps.
Godzilla.The stock market has been heading lower all day. Right now, the S&amp;P 500 is down 1.4% to start the week, trading at 1811. The Nasdaq is down 1.7%, and the Dow Jones Industrial Average is down 1.1%. The U.S. dollar is down 1.2% against the Japanese yen today, trading near ¥102.90. "Admittedly, the pullback has been from record highs, so we're reluctant to call it anything more than a consolidation after a solid run," says Ian Lyngen, a senior government bond strategist at CRT Capital. "We're skeptical of the explanations offered for the pullback, such as attributing the move to the Fed's tapering decision and/or valuation concerns — this strikes us as simply excuses chasing price action." As stocks fall, Treasuries are heading higher. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note is trading at 2.82%, 4 basis points below Friday's close. No major economic data reports were released today, but Tuesday, the U.S. Census Bureau releases advance retail sales figures for the month of December. FREE AppDownload
peapod labs/flickrThe commodities supercycle of the previous decade, which saw insatiable emerging market demand drive raw materials prices higher, is over. As a result, commodities prices growth has basically ground to a halt in the past few years.  In his latest note, Goldman's Jeff Currie says that long-term, he remains bearish on the sector. But he says that a new commodities cycle has begun replacing the old one — and argues for hanging on to commodities a bit longer.  Here's how the cycle works: "The net of this is more commodity supply which reinforces further downward pressure on commodity prices, which in turn reinforces the US economic recovery," he writes. So where does the near-term sorta bullishness on commodities come in? Currie explains that U.S. growth is helping relieve infrastructure constraints on things like oil and copper that had helped further drive prices lower. As a result, prices will start to come up.  "This takes time to adjust to and in many cases the downstream must be paid to make the investments through higher margins such as copper treatment charges and US refining margins," he writes. "While this adjustment will eventually play out, it is unlikely to happen in 2014."  U.S. crude prices are down 0.8% today. FREE AppDownload
Today, the New York Fed published the inaugural results of its new monthly Survey of Consumer Expectations. The survey polls consumers about expectations for various things including inflation, house prices, and earnings growth. The data are useful because they break these responses down into various demographic groups, like age, education level, income bracket, and geographic region. As one might expect, the data show that those making more money are generally more optimistic on various aspects of the economy than those making less, and those with more education tend to be relatively more optimistic than their lesser-educated counterparts. What is perhaps most striking in the charts below, however, is the generational divide among American consumers — young people tend to have the highest expectations in many categories, while senior citizens have the lowest expectations. The charts below illustrate how different groups of consumers are feeling about different aspects of the economy at the moment. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesJames Fleishman James Fleishman, a former vice president at "expert network" Primary Global Research LLC, is explaining on a Reddit "Ask Me Anything" what it's like to go to prison for insider trading. Prosecutors said Fleishman acted as a middleman by introducing hedge fund traders and company execs he knew would give them illegal tips.   In September 2011, he was found guilty of one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud and one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud.   Fleishman was sentenced to 30 months in federal prison. He ended up having to serve just 14 months at a minimum security camp in Colorado.  Here are a few takeaways from his Reddit AMA:  On His Daily Routine:   "I had a routine of running, reading and writing. I got some naps in too!" On The Worst Part About Prison:  "The worst part was just not being able to be with my family. Missed wearing my own clothes, eating fresh fruits and vegetables, driving a car and surfing the Web." On His Workout Routine:   "I ran about thirty miles a week. I walked about twenty. I did push-up, pull-ups, dips 3-4 times a week. For me the best place was on the track walking or running laps, listening to my music at the foot of the Rockies in the desolation of the high desert plains." "Guys are really disciplined for the most part. I was a slacker compared with the routines of others. Good friend I made there lost over a hundred pounds. There is a lot of positive peer pressure. Saying you don't work out is like saying you don't usually shower!" On His Prison Job: "I made 12 cents an hour locked up in a kitchen cleaning and filling trays for folks like the Unibomber." On Special Skills He Learned:  "I learned how to make a pizza crust in a microwave using a tortilla and olive oil." On His Favorite Books He Read:  "Jonathan Tropper Nelson Mandela Mark Twain TC Boyle "Born to Run" "Man's Search for Meaning" "I only read about a book a week. I knew guys who read a book a day! Inmates are very disciplined...or many are in terms of diet, exercise and education." On Being A Diabetic In Prison:  "Was not easy. At least the meds were free! But I had very few options in terms of food and could not test my blood sugars throughout the day. I had to line up at 6am for Medical if I wanted to do so!" On What The Other Inmates Did To Get Locked Up:   "90% of the guys at the Camp in Colorado were there on drug charges. Many of them for selling pot. My bunkmate like to point out how when he was on his way to the prison to self-surrender he saw a ton of pot shops in Denver." On Whether Prison Is Really Like 'Orange Is The New Black': "I have not yet read the book but really enjoyed it on Netflix. They get a lot right--details like the blankets were identical to the ones I slept with!" Since his release, Fleishman has written a book "Inside Story: The Wall Street Criminal Who Wasn't".  Fleishman claims that he didn't commit those insider trading crimes.  "I found myself caught in an absurd injustice that saw me first accused then convicted of an Insider Trading crime I did not commit. Unlike many who pled (sic) guilty in exchange for probation, and others who cooperated with the FBI and whose lies under oath were exposed in my own trial, I chose to maintain my integrity and my innocence and paid the price, receiving a prison sentence of two and a half years," he writes on his website. He says he's currently working at a small software startup his friend runs. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Mike SegarDominic Barton, managing director at McKinsey & CompanyMcKinsey is the most prestigious consultancy in the world. But the company's reputation has suffered after director Amil Kumar pled guilty to insider trading charges in 2010, and its revered former leader Rajat Gupta was convicted of the same crime in 2012.  Before these incidents, a McKinsey partner had never been charged with violating security laws. That's why McKinsey managing director Dominic Barton started a crusade in 2010 to transition the company from an honor-driven culture based on values and tradition to a stricter, rules-based organization, according to an article in The New York Times.  Since Marvin Bower led the company in the 1950s, the company's mantras have included putting the firm above individual interests, always being independent, and keeping client's confidences. Those values weren't explicitly enforced by rules, but based on trust and passed on through the generations. Dissent was always public, rather than privately reported.  The move to a more rigid system includes a much stricter personal investment policy forbidding employees and members of their households from trading in securities of the firm's clients, as well as mandatory online tutorials and tests on subjects like investing. Employees who don't take those tests get locked out of their email accounts. Additionally, discipline over ethical issues such as expense misconduct is now more public, and there's a confidential avenue to report on the behavior of senior partners. While many employees support the changes, others, particularly those outside the United States, accuse Barton of creating a "nanny state" based on American rules. One partner reportedly called the rules "childish" and said that the initiatives reminded him of the Stasi in East Germany. “We needed more safety moats around the castle,” Barton told The Times' Anita Raghavan. “We have this values/trust culture. I get that. Now we have a little more edge.” The overhaul of the culture is something McKinsey would undertake for a client. Now it's taking steps beyond what's common or required for consultancies, which are less regulated than banks. It's well ahead of its peers in the industry, which don't have personal investment rules as strict as McKinsey's. As much as companies might like to be able to rely on meritocracy, trust, and tradition, there are far too many gray areas. Though it's a blow to employee's egos to be reminded repeatedly of what's acceptable and what isn't, the risk of another scandal without change is too steep. FREE AppDownload
This is a big week for employees at US investment banks. Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley, BAML and Citi all report their full year results for 2013. Employees at those banks will also be told their 2013 bonuses. Ahead of that moment – and before European banks’ results next month – here’s a brief run through of expectations regarding pay based on average accruals in the first nine months. In summary, most banks look likely to cut pay per head by an average of 5% – although Credit Suisse and RBS are on track to cut by substantially more. UBS is on track to increase pay in its investment bank. Quantum: By the end of Q3, Credit Suisse had accrued CHF4.1bn to pay its investment bankers, working out at an average of CHF263k per head. If Credit Suisse continues to accrue at the same rate, it should pay its average investment banker CHF350k ($388k) for 2013. Likely direction: Down. In the first nine months of 2013, Credit Suisse cut average pay per head by 16% – more than any other bank except RBS. Quantum: At the end of the third quarter, Deutsche Bank had accrued a total of €4.3bn with which to pay people in its corporate and investment bank. This worked out an average of €173k per head, suggesting that Deutsche will be paying around €231k ($315k) per head for the full year. Likely direction: Down. Average pay per head fell 4% in the first three quarters of 2013 vs. the same period of 2012. Quantum: At the end of the third quarter, Goldman had accrued a total compensation pool of $10.4bn. With 32,600 employees, this worked out at an average of $320k per head. If Goldman accrues at the same rate during the fourth quarter, the implication is that it will pay an average of $427k for the full year. In fact, it may pay slightly less – the rate of pay accrual typically slows in the final months of the year. Likely direction: Down. During the first nine months of 2013, average pay per head at Goldman was down 5% on 2012. Quantum: JPMorgan no longer reports results for its investment bank alone, choosing to bundle them up with results for its commercial bank. This obfuscates how much its investment bankers are getting paid. In the first nine months, total compensation accrued for people at JPMorgan’s corporate and investment bank totaled $8.7bn, which worked out at $166k per head. For the full year, the average JPMorgan corporate and investment banker should earn $221k. Likely direction: Down. In the first nine months pay per head at JPMorgan’s corporate and investment bank fell 5% on 2012. Rumour has it that its investment banking bonuses will be flat versus the previous year. Quantum: Morgan Stanley doesn’t break out the number of people it employs in its institutional securities division, making it impossible to compute pay per head. However, in the first nine months it accrued a total of $5.3bn in compensation and benefits expenditure, suggesting its total investment banking pay pot should be around $7bn for the full year. Likely direction: Down. Morgan Stanley’s $5.3bn accrual in the first nine months was 3% lower than in the same period of 2012. For more predictions, head to eFinancial Careers&gt; This article originally appeared at eFinancial Careers.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
China is the world's largest auto market and it's also home to over a million millionaires.  Understandably automakers, especially luxury automakers want a slice of that pie. A new report from Nomura shows that German cars still dominate China's luxury auto market, and that Audi comes out on top. The Audi dominates in the entry-level luxury, mid-end luxury and luxury SUV market. In the premium luxury segment Mercedes Benz has the largest market share. Nomura
AP/Charles KrupaOver the past two decades, the American welfare system has shifted more toward one of "in-work" assistance, which tends to stir up less political resistance than programs often pegged as "handouts." The Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), for example, has become the hallmark safety net for low income families in the United States ever since Bill Clinton expanded the program alongside welfare reform, with the go-ahead from Congressional Republicans. The idea is that embedding work incentives into the tax code is better than simply doling out cash. And it's worked pretty well. There's evidence the EITC has encouraged work among low-income Americans, particularly single mothers. The EITC is also part of the reason such a large percentage of Americans don't actually pay income tax — a fact Mitt Romney reminded us of in the infamous video that would come to define his campaign. But the financial crisis at its aftermath has presented another case study opportunity for the EITC. Researchers are looking into how it held up during the hard times. In a new paper "Do In-Work Tax Credits Serve as a Safety Net?" economists Marianne Bitler, Hilary Hoynes, and Elira Kuka found that the program did not stabilize income for single mothers when the unemployment rate spiked. It did help married couples. From the paper: Our results show that for the largest group of EITC recipients, single mothers with children, there is a negative but statistically insignificant relationship between unemployment rates and their use of the EITC. There is therefore no evidence that the EITC stabilizes income for this group; in fact the point estimates suggests that the EITC acts as an income de-stabilizer. On the other hand, for married couples with children (and to a lesser extent the childless), use of the EITC is found to rise in recessions and thus the credit acts as an automatic stabilizer for this group. These results can be understood within the context of labor supply theory and in particular connect to the different predictions for how earnings changes for one- versus two-earner households as well as underlying differences in the distribution of income across the different family types. "Singles with children, due to being in one-earner families and having relatively low earnings, are at higher risk of losing the EITC in the event of an adverse labor market shock," they conclude. FREE AppDownload
After witnessing the S&amp;P 500 surge 30% in 2013, and return 200% since the market trough in March 2009, investors are wondering what they should do next. Goldman Sachs' Sharmin Mossavar-Rahmani and Brett Nelson are recommending that the firm's private wealth clients should "stay fully invested at their strategic allocation to U.S. equities." Goldman's Private Wealth Investment Management division will manage money for folks with at least $10 million. While this recommendation is the same as recommendations they made in Dec. 2008, Apr. 2012, and Apr. 2013, Goldman says their current view is a more "nuanced" this time because valuations aren't the tailwind they once were. "We believe that having a long-term investment horizon is particularly important at this time because it gives our clients a comparative advantage over other investors whose investment horizons are hampered by institutional constraints such as quarterly reporting periods or public finance considerations," Mossavar-Rahmani and Nelson write. "In addition, the current monetary policy environment of zero interest rates makes cash and high-quality fixed income assets much less attractive over the next one and five years, which, in turn, increases the attractiveness of equities." They point out that the "the penalty of being wrong when underweighting US equities are very high." Another factor in this recommendation is that bull markets "do not die of old age." Instead, they need some shock to trigger a bear market. In the past, these triggers have been tighter monetary policy or an external shock like the dot com bubble or housing bust and there seem to be no signs of any such triggers at the moment. Of course, there are a few key things that pose a risk to U.S. equity markets: 1. The U.S. economy stalls and goes into recession; 2. The Fed's exit from quantitative easing is more disruptive than anticipated; 3. The eurozone sovereign debt crisis bubbles over; 4. Confidence in Japan's three arrows of Abenomics wanes; 5. Emerging market countries see a hard landing; 6. There are geopolitical disruptions through military engagement. Meanwhile, here are Goldman's key investment themes for 2014: Overall, Goldman is more cautious now, and is proceeding with "extra vigilance, knowing that the summit is in sight." FREE AppDownload
FRB, DB Global Markets ResearchThe size of the FOMC's regular statement on monetary policy has ballooned alongside the Fed's balance sheet.The Federal Reserve's changing communication strategy has been prone to criticism in the last few years as the central bank tries to innovate with regard to how it conveys its message to market participants. One one hand, Fed officials — including outgoing chairman Ben Bernanke and incoming chairman Janet Yellen, the latter having spearheaded much of these efforts during her tenure as vice chairman — laud the changes they have made, making the case that the monetary policy decision-making process has become more transparent. On the other hand, market participants trying to follow what the Fed is actually saying these days are having more and more trouble doing so. This became really apparent last summer, when Bernanke and others began signaling that the Fed would possibly seek to begin winding down ("tapering") its quantitative easing program by the end of 2013. These communications caused a rise in expected short-term interest rates as traders pulled forward expectations for when the Fed would begin tightening monetary policy by hiking its policy rate. Fed officials then embarked on a campaign to reassure market participants that "tapering isn't tightening," sending expected short rates lower once again. Now, the Fed has begun tapering as it shifts its reliance toward market participants' expectations of the future path of short-term interest rates as its primary tool for providing the economy with monetary stimulus. This is known as the Fed's "forward guidance," and its success relies more than anything else on proper communication of its future intentions. Current guidance dictates that it will likely be inappropriate for the central bank to hike its policy rate until "well past the time that the unemployment rate declines below 6-1/2 percent, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal," and current Fed estimates suggest the rate hike won't come until late in 2015. Right now, the market is having problems digesting this forward guidance. Economic data releases tied to the labor market — especially the monthly jobs report put out by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics — are causing interest-rate volatility as the unemployment rate continues to fall closer and closer toward the Fed's 6.5% threshold (it currently stands at 6.7%). If the economic data keep improving at the current pace, market participants will increasingly test the Fed's commitment to abstain from rate hikes until late 2015 by bidding up expectations of future short-term interest rates. This would represent a tightening of monetary conditions, and if the Fed decides it wants to push back on such a development, it will have to further modify the language of its policy statement, perhaps by lowering the unemployment rate threshold — an idea with problems of its own, as Michael Feroli, chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase Bank, points out. "We believe the Fed will refrain from lowering the unemployment rate threshold, as it is concerned that such a change could lead to the conclusion that thresholds can be adjusted—up as well as down—which would be damaging to the credibility of those thresholds as commitment devices," says Feroli. This is why many market participants believe Janet Yellen's great experiment with the Fed's communication strategy in recent years has not been such a big success. As Ethan Harris, co-head of global economics research at BofA Merrill Lynch, put it last summer: "The Fed has taken a step backwards in terms of communication. By offering so much information in such a muddled fashion, they have made policy less transparent." FREE AppDownload
OffTheChartsAmong the nastier numbers in Friday's terrible jobs report was a 15,000-payroll drop in public schools jobs for December.  That brings the net payroll losses in local school districts since September 2008 to 307,000. Few other sectors have seen that kind of decline. While most of the cuts resulted from crunched city and county budgets, they've also come as part of the national education reform movement, which has sought to drain public schools of what the movements says is overly generous spending on poorly performing schools and teachers.  That may seem like a worthy initiative. But Chris Mai at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities is out with a simple chart that may muddy that worldview: over the same six-odd years, the net number of students who've enrolled in schools over the same period has soared 801,000. "The recession is far from over for the nation’s schools," Mai writes. Her colleague and former adviser to Vice President Joe Biden Jared Bernstein adds: "Whenever someone raises this issue [of school cuts], my first thought is 'ok, but what’s happening with enrollments?'  That is, it’s not an obviously bad thing for schools to adjust staffing levels to demand, i.e., enrollment.  As shown in the figure, that’s not what’s happening here." The data does not show where overall student-to-teacher ratios now stand compared with prior levels. But it would be hard to be bullish about these figures. FREE AppDownload
The experts give advice on everything from raising kids to a proper diet. But I found their advice on money and work the most fascinating, because it goes against so many maxims younger Americans live by. Here are 10 from Karl's book.  1. Young people obsess about making a lot of money. Older people wonder what they were thinking. When asked about their prescription for happiness at work, what wasn't mentioned spoke the loudest. And fancy statistics aren't necessary because the results are so clear. No one -- not a single person out of a thousand -- said that to be happy you should try to work as hard as you can to make money to buy the things you want. No one -- not a single person -- said it's important to be at least as wealthy as the people around you, and if you have more than they do it's real success. No one -- not a single person -- said you should choose your work based on your desired future earning power. 2. Money is often at war with time. Balance them appropriately.  The view from the end of the life span is straightforward: time well and enjoyably spent trumps money anytime. They know what it means to make a living, and they are not suggesting that we all become starving artists. But they also know firsthand that most people who decide on a profession because of the material rewards at some point look back and gasp, "What have I done." In their view, we all need a salary to live on. But the experts concur that it's vastly preferable to take home less in your paycheck and enjoy what you are doing rather than live for the weekends and your three weeks (if you get that much) vacation a year. If doing what you love requires living with less, for the experts, that's a no-brainer ... If you are willing to accept a lower income level, you can gain enormous benefits by choosing part-time work as a lifestyle. Imagine if you suddenly had more leisure than work time. Some experts made this decision: living on much less money, renting rather than owning a house, and forgoing expensive consumer goods to pursue a job and a lifestyle they enjoy. 3. Independence at work is crucial.  When the experts discuss their work lives, two themes go hand in hand: purpose (beyond making a salary) and autonomy. Neither one can be found in every job, every time, but without them work can become a miserable burden... Career satisfaction is often dependent on how much autonomy you have on the job. Look for the freedom to make decisions and move in directions that interest you, without too much control from the top.  4. You'll spend 40+ hours a week at work for half a century. Make sure you enjoy it.  [Expert:] "No amount of money is worth more than having a job that you're glad to get up and go to every morning, instead of one you dread ... I have learned many lessons, but there are only a few that in the long run are meaningful and which I have tried to pass on to my children and students. If you can't wake up in the morning and want to go to work, you're in the wrong job ..." You know those nightmares where you are shouting a warning but no sound comes out? Well, that's the intensity with which the experts wanted to tell young people that spending years in a job you dislike is a recipe for regret and a tragic mistake. There was no issue about which the experts were more adamant and forceful. 5. Jump at new work opportunities. I've seen people who turned down a promotion for fear it would be too time-consumer or taxing, or who rejected a chance to spend a year or two abroad because they were "not the adventurous type" ... The experts' view? This approach to life is a huge mistake. Their advice is to embrace new challenges at every turn, saying yes as often as possible. The most frequently reported regrets about work in particular involved times when opportunity knocked and they kept the door firmly closed. According to our elders, the greatest reward you can receive in your career is the opportunity to do more. 6. Not traveling enough is a key source of regret I learned that whether [the experts] had visited dozens of counties or stayed put in one place, the experts had one thing in common: they wished they had traveled more. I came away from my interviews with the realization of the profound meaning travel has at the end of life. To sum up what I learned in a sentence: when your traveling days are over, you will wish you had taken one more trip. Often, after a long narrative about trips taken, I heard an elder say wistfully, "But I always wish I'd visited ..."  7. To succeed at work, you need to be more than talented. You need to be nice.  The experts come from hundreds of different occupations and employers. They have observed people who succeed at work and those who crash and burn. It is on such experiences that this lesson is based. Their consensus: no matter how talented you are, no matter how brilliant -- you must have interpersonal skills to succeed. Many young people today are so focused on gaining technical expertise that they lose sight of this key to job success: traits like empathy, consideration, listening skills, and the ability to resolve conflicts are fundamental in the workplace. 8. Be frugal, but live a little. [Expert:] "Don't worry so much. There is not enough time in our lives to trade off the gold of our existence for the dust of what-ifs or what-if-nots. I had my first job before I was twenty and saved everything I could from my paychecks. I closed my ears to good advice from a dear woman who told me that I should enjoy my days and not become so absorbed with thrift. I did not understand what she said. Although I used money to attend plays and concerts, I did so knowing that each ticket for a performance meant less money in my savings account. As I grew older, people I knew and loved died, and I began to see how very precious each moment of each day is."  9. Stop worrying about things you can't control.  It seemed reasonable that people who had experienced the Great Depression would want to encourage financial worries ... the reverse is the case, however. The experts see worry as a crippling feature of our daily existence and suggest that we do everything in our power to change it. Most important, they view worrying as a waste of time. They see time as our most precious resource. Worrying about events that may not occur or that are out of our control is viewed by them as an inexcusable waste of our precious and limited lifetime. 10. Long-term thinking is a great way to live as an investor. It's a terrible way to live as a person. [Expert:} "It seems to take a lifetime to learn how to live in the moment but it shouldn't. I certainly feel that in my own life I have been too future oriented. It's a natural inclination -- of course you think about the future, and I'm not suggesting that that's bad. But boy is there a lot to be gained from just being able to be in the moment and able to appreciate what's going on around you right now, this very second. I've more recently gotten better at this and appreciated it. It brings peace. It helps you find your place. It's calming in a world that is not very peaceful. But I wish I could have learned this in my thirties instead of my sixties -- it would have given me decades more to enjoy life in this world. That would be my lesson for younger people."  FREE AppDownload
Carlo Allegri/ReutersWith aggressive monetary policy keeping interest rates low, investors are increasingly eager for bond issues that offer a few extra basis points of yield. Some of those interesting opportunities are coming from the commercial mortgage-backed debt (CMBS) market where banks are  creating and selling increasingly weird combinations of assets, the Financial Times' Tracy Alloway reports. The loan for a Chelsea homeless shelter? Sure, throw that into a bond with the water park and sell that puppy. What could go wrong? From the FT: Citigroup last year sold a bond backed by 137 commercial mortgages, including a loan to 127 West 25th Street, a homeless shelter whose location in the fashionable Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan has raised the ire of some of the area’s residents. Another deal, put together by the commercial real estate lending arm of Cantor Fitzgerald, included a loan to 60 Hudson Street, the former Western Union Building which has now been converted into a data centre that houses computer systems. The same bond, known as COMM 2013-CCRE13 Mortgage Trust, includes a loan to Kalahari Resort and Convention Center, a chain of African-themed waterparks. The securitization process allows a variety of assets to effectively be chopped up and redistributed to investors. This limits the risk of a bankrupt homeless shelter crushing a single investor. While this has been applauded for bring liquidity to the credit markets, it was also blamed for exacerbating the credit crisis. Many pre-crisis lending practices have also returned, according to the FT. Read the full report » FREE AppDownload
A bunch of mega-foundations just pledged $330 million to help bail out Detroit's retiree pensions and save the city's art collection, according to a release from the Michigan court handling the city's bankruptcy. The Ford Foundation and Knight Foundation will oversee the rescue fund, though the release does not explicitly break down which charities are paying what amounts. Project leaders want to incorporate the fund into Detroit's official bankruptcy settlement with the city's 100,000 creditors. More foundations are expected to pledge additional amounts. There remains dispute about the total pension shortfall. Emergency manager Kevyn Orr has put the number at $3.5 billion, while pension leaders say it's actually less than $700 million.  Either way, Orr had begun getting quotes for the city's prized art collection as a way to help pay down those costs.  But this appears to be a real movement — and it's not just limited to organizations. Dr. Paul Schaap, a millionaire biotech entrepreneur and Detroit-area native, recently pledged $5 million toward the project.  Here's the full release on the fund: Eastern District FREE AppDownload
Corporate profit margins are at record highs. Goldman Sachs is among the Wall Street firms that believes this is the result of a long-term structural change, not some short-term cyclical fluke. "One of the underpinnings of our view on equities over the last several years has been that the current level of margins is sustainable and likely to stay well above the levels seen in the 1970s through the 1980s," they wrote in a new report to private wealth clients. Here's the basis thesis: Labor market slack and technological improvements will keep wage cost growth contained, deleveraging will limit the impact of higher interest rates,  and increasing overseas exposure will keep overall taxes and operating costs low. Many experts note that margins are at all-time highs as labor's share of national income is at historic lows. And many of those experts believe that the squeeze on America's workers can't go on forever. But this is not to say workers will get their compensation levels back to historic averages. Here's Goldman explaining one of the reasons why: As shown in Exhibit 15, union workers have accounted for a declining share of US wage and salary workers. The share of union workers peaked at 35% in 1954 and has declined fairly steadily to a post-WWII low of 11%. The shrinking role of unions in the workforce may well have been the initial impetus behind labor’s declining share of national income, but other forces have contributed. China’s entry into the World Trade Organization (WTO) clearly squeezed US manufacturing workers, who were, in effect, displaced by cheap labor. And, finally, globalization and outsourcing beyond China put some additional downward pressure on wages. These trends will not be reversed any time soon, as discussed in greater detail by our colleague, Jan Hatzius, chief economist at Goldman Sachs, in a 2012 report Corporate Profits—A Bigger Slice of the Pie. Workers may have some leverage when negotiating their pay. But not as much leverage as they did when they had unions backing them up. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
Lululemon on FlickrLululemon shares are tumbling after the company said revenue would be lower than expected.  While the crash took some by surprise, insiders have seen a Lululemon implosion coming for a long time.  Last year, equity firm The Oxen Group called Lululemon's shares "strongly overvalued." Popular blogger LuluAddict wrote that former CEO Christine Day had ruined "everything special" about the retailer.  There's a lot going wrong at Lululemon, but here are a few major factors that led to the current predicament.  FREE AppDownload
Today, the New York Fed published the inaugural results of its new monthly Survey of Consumer Expectations. The survey polls consumers about expectations for various things including inflation, house prices, and earnings growth. The data are useful because they break these responses down into various demographic groups, like age, education level, income bracket, and geographic region. The charts below illustrate how different groups of consumers are feeling about different aspects of the economy at the moment. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) FREE AppDownload
The Israeli firm said net income came in at $52.5 million, down from a previous estimate of $65 million, and fiscal year 2013 revenues of $562 million, down from a forecast of $567 million. "Despite achieving all-time record sales, we failed to deliver our profit targets and are disappointed in our fourth quarter performance... These preliminary results reflect a challenging holiday selling season in the U.S. and several factors, mostly from the second half of the quarter that negatively impacted our gross margin," Daniel Birnbaum, Chief Executive Officer of SodaStream, said in a statement.  The company recently announced Scarlett Johansson as its first global brand ambassador. At $39.70, the stock is down 49% from its 52-week high of $77.80. FREE AppDownload
The stock is the lowest since June 11, reports Lindsey Rupp at Bloomberg News.  “Lululemon enjoyed several years of extremely strong growth,” John Zolidis, an analyst at Buckingham Research, wrote in a note to clients. “Those days are now behind the company.” The company had expected revenue as high as $540 million, but today changed the outlook to $518 million.  "We were on track to deliver on our sales and earnings guidance through the month of December; however, since the beginning of January, we have seen traffic and sales trends decelerate meaningfully," Lululemon CFO John Currie said in a release. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Aly SongChina trumped the U.S. to become the world's largest auto-market in 2010.  Last year, vehicle sales grew 16% year-over-year, to a projected 17.9 million private vehicle sales. But now Nomura's Benjamin Lo expects growth to slow to 12% in 2014. Lo cites two key reasons for slower auto sales growth 1. Slower GDP growth 2. More restrictions on new car sales as part of an attempt to clamp down on pollution.  "Currently, Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Tianjin and Guiyang have new cars sales restrictions in place through a quota and/or bidding system for new car license plates. The latest city to adopt new car sales restrictions has been Tianjin, commencing 16 December 2013. Considering the government’s focus on air pollution issues, along with increasing traffic congestion, we believe the risk of more cities adopting new car sales restrictions has increased, which may pose downside risks to China’s new car sales. "...Investors are aware of the possibility of more cities imposing new car sales restrictions based on our dialogues with investors. However, we believe the market might start to anticipate similar restrictions spreading into more cities (especially tier-one and tier-two cities in northern China, where air pollution is more severe), thereby creating an overhang on auto share prices in the very near term, i.e., industry risk has risen. The impact to actual sales volume of the OEMs and dealers should be manageable, since their sales efforts have been focusing on lower-tier cities where restriction possibility is much lower. "Near term, new car sales might actually benefit from the bringing-forward of demand from buyers on worries of more restrictions later. However, sales momentum might taper off during 2Q14F and through the summer months, which also coincided with the industry’s slow season." That being said Nomura does think China's long-term growth prospects look good. FREE AppDownload
CharterWorld.comRupert Murdoch has found a buyer for his yacht, Rosehearty, says The Telegraph. He put the vessel on sale three months after filing for divorce from his ex-wife, Wendi Deng. The yacht itself boasts 5 cabins and some pretty amazing toys like water skis and full sets of diving gear. Murdoch has said that the sale has nothing to do with divorce, he merely works too much. Apparently Wendi use it a fair amount though. The vessel was sold by Alex Lees-Buckley in Monoco's Camper &amp; Nicholsons office. FREE AppDownload
APSometimes we get our ithms confused too. Here's a correction from the New York Times that made us laugh (via Justin Wolfers): An article on Thursday about a settlement between the asset management company BlackRock and the New York attorney general in which BlackRock agreed to stop surveying Wall Street analysts to get advance clues about their views on companies misstated, in some copies, the way in which BlackRock used the information it gathered. The information was fed into trading algorithms, not into logarithms. (An algorithm is a computer science term for a procedure to calculate an answer; a logarithm is a mathematical operation that simplifies certain complicated multiplication and division calculations.) Live and learn. FREE AppDownload
Twitter's stock has been swinging all over the place in the last month, usually moving 5% up or down on a daily basis.  Today, it's up 4%, and the catalyst seems to be a bullish note from Goldman Sachs. Most sell-side analysts have been downgrading Twitter price target on valuation fears. They think the stock has run too hot, too quickly. Goldman's Heath Terry is going the other way. He's keeping his "buy" rating and upping his target to $65, from $45 previously. The stock was at $57 before he made his call.  Terry says Twitter launched 23 product enhancements in Q4, which he thinks is 4X what it's ever done in a quarter. He thinks that Twitter's site is now stable, so it can focus on building the product. (We'd also note that management is solid, so it can execute on a cohesive vision for the product.) Terry believes these product innovations will increase engagement and revenue. So, he's raising his targets. Here's a chart he included showing how the product was changed in Q4:             					                                                                                                                                            facebook                                                                        linkedin                                                                        twitter                                                                        google+                                                                        email                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                email                                                                                        share                                                                         share                                                                         tweet                                                                         share                                                                         email                                                                                        Share on Facebook                                                                         Share on Twitter                                                                         Share on Linkedin                                                                         Share on Google Plus                                                                         email                                                            Recommended For You                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     window._taboola = window._taboola || [];                                    _taboola.push({mode:'thumbs-1r', container:'taboola-below-main-column', placement:'below-main-column'});                                                                                                                        	(function() {		'use strict';		// Notify the DFP code that a new ad has just been rendered		amplify.publish('adRender');	}());                Comments             Comments on this post are now closed.        	    																				Insiders						0																								All Comments						2									                                                            Apply To Be An "Insider" &#187;                                    						                         Loading                                                        GOLDMAN: Twitter Is Still A Screaming Buy Because The Company Is Innovating Like Crazy    GOLDMAN: Twitter Is Still A Screaming Buy Because The Company Is Innovating Like Crazy        Twitter's stock has been swinging all over the... FREE AppDownload
Flickr/HonouInvestors woke up plenty of stock-specific news this morning. It's already a busy day and the market just opened. Here are the major stories so far today: FREE AppDownload
en.wikipedia.orgHookworms Well, it's funny that people, when they say that this is evidence of the Almighty, always quote beautiful things. They always quote orchids and hummingbirds and butterflies and roses. But I always have to think, too, of a little boy sitting on the banks of a river in West Africa who has a worm boring through his eyeball, turning him blind before he's five years old. And I reply and say, "Well, presumably the God you speak about created the worm as well," and now, I find that baffling to credit a merciful God with that action. And therefore it seems to me safer to show things that I know to be truth, truthful and factual, and allow people to make up their own minds about the moralities of this thing, or indeed the theology of this thing. – David Attenborough Ash: You still don't understand what you're dealing with, do you? Perfect organism. Its structural perfection is matched only by its hostility. Lambert: You admire it. Ash: I admire its purity. A survivor... unclouded by conscience, remorse, or delusions of morality. Parker: Look, I am... I've heard enough of this, and I'm asking you to pull the plug. [Ripley goes to disconnect Ash, who interrupts] Ash: Last word. Ripley: What? Ash: I can't lie to you about your chances, but... you have my sympathies. "Alien" franchise From an evolutionary perspective, the parasite is a beautiful creature. Instead of possessing a set of adaptations that make it suitable for thriving within a “natural” habitat – an ocean, a forest, a tundra, a jungle, etc. – the parasite typically finds its habitat within an organism itself. Parasites twist the core evolutionary process of adaptive radiation in a new direction, finding opportunities for new niches and species differentiation within host species that emerge over time in new geographies, not the new geographies themselves. To a parasite, the world IS an oyster. Given the amazing diversity of life on Earth, using life-forms as habitats presents a phenomenal opportunity for parasitic adaptive radiation and thus, evolutionary success. Almost every multi-cellular life-form on the planet serves as a host for one or more parasites, and as a result parasites account for more biodiversity and sheer numbers than non-parasitic life. In many respects, the parasite is an evolutionary apex. Why do parasites get such bad press? Most of them are not what zookeepers would call “charismatic vertebrates”, but instead tend to be viruses or squishy worms with nasty looking (from a human perspective) and voraciously-presented mouths. That’s a problem for any public relations campaign. More importantly, parasites do not behave according to what game theorists call a “nice” or cooperative strategy. These are not win-win relationships, where there’s some sort of symbiotic benefit shared between the two organisms, some sort of reciprocal value provided by the tapeworm to whatever warm-blooded intestinal tract it happens to inhabit. No, the very definition of a parasite is that it is harmful to its host, with a one-way transfer of resources. Parasites are squatters, not tenants. They are thieves, not buyers. But they don’t steal a lot. Not usually, anyway, as examples of Alien-esque life-forms that kill their hosts in some burst of gore are few and far between. Almost all parasites are better off keeping their hosts alive for as long as possible, so it would seem natural for any individual parasite to take just enough from its individual host to live well without killing off the host. And this is, in fact, the case – few parasites kill their hosts – but it’s the why behind this fact, the evolutionary dynamic behind this fact, that I want to examine. An individually successful hookworm is not thinking “Gee, I better slow down a little bit here. Wouldn’t want to damage my host too much.” That hookworm acts exactly as it is programmed to act … to eat and reproduce as much as it is hookworm-ly possible to eat and reproduce. An evolutionary perspective requires us to look at the population of hookworms in relationship to its habitat – the population of host animals – to figure out the evolutionarily stable strategy (or ESS as it’s known) for hookworms. We will never figure out the ESS by looking at an individual hookworm and an individual host, because you can’t just extrapolate from what’s good or bad for that individual relationship, no matter how much of a long-term view you take for that individual hookworm and its descendants. From a population perspective, a parasite species is trying to balance growth with robustness in the context of its life-form habitat in exactly the same way that a non-parasite species is trying to balance growth and robustness in the context of its geographical habitat. Both grow by consuming resources. If growth outstrips resource supply, that’s a problem, because the offspring population is going to starve and die off. This is the population dynamic that is most closely associated with the work of Thomas Malthus, who despaired of any animal (including the human animal) escaping this deterministic pattern of population growth outpacing resource availability, punctuated by enormous population die-offs in order to restore the balance between resource supply and demand. In the human context, innovation in our tools and our mental constructs has allowed us to increase our species population essentially unchecked by Malthusian logic since the 14th century and the Black Death, with only a small hiccup from pandemic and global war in the early 20th century. In the non-human context, any respite from resource-depletion die-offs must come from the glacially slow process of natural selection and the evolution of adaptations that push a species into a more robust, less volatile relationship with its environment. This is an ESS. What’s interesting (to me, anyway) is that a parasite species tends to have more options in the development of its ESS than a non-parasite species. A parasite is not geographically “grounded” like a non-parasite. Because its habitat is another population of life-forms, the population of parasites can more easily “choose” how to allocate its resource consumption. Maybe the parasite species is better off if it concentrates on a few individuals within the host population and really loads up on those unlucky targets, depleting all of their resources and killing them in the process, but leaving a critical mass of healthy hosts unharmed so that they can reproduce and provide juicy targets in the future. Maybe the parasite species is better off by getting smaller and less noticeable or impactful on the host species. Maybe the parasite species is better off if it moves from host species to host species within its lifecycle, so that no single host species is damaged too severely even if the individual parasites run rampant during their stay. These are strategic options at the population level that are much more difficult to develop or evolve within species that have a specific geography for a habitat. Not impossible … maybe you can rotate from one resource-rich patch of your geography to another and then back again (migration) … but more difficult. A resource habitat created by life-form populations is just more fungible than a resource habitat created by a singular geography, and that’s a really big deal for an ESS. This flexibility (and hence evolutionary speed) in creating an ESS is a big reason why parasites dominate the world. Like humans, they’re pretty good at getting around the gloomy future that Malthus predicted. Not by inventing the printing press, fossil fuel energy sources, and liberal ideas of social organization, but by quickly evolving a wide range of behavioral adaptations that are extremely effective at balancing resources and growth. Here’s what these parasite ESS’s have in common: they make the parasite population invisible to the host population. The relationship between individual parasite and individual host may also be invisible, but it also might be a violent struggle to the death or somewhere in between … evolution doesn’t care about individuals. Evolution has to be understood at the group level, and the evolutionary beauty of the parasite is its amazing suitability and fitness – at the group level – for using life itself as a habitat. Now why do I care so much about parasites and their evolutionarily stable strategies? Because the most effective alpha-generating investment strategies are parasites. An alpha-generating strategy of the type I’m describing uses the market itself as its habitat. It’s not an investment strategy based on the fundamentals of this company or that company – the equivalent of a geographic habitat – but on the behaviors of market participants who are living their investment lives in that fundamentally-derived habitat. A parasitic strategy isn’t the only way to generate alpha – you can also be better suited for a particular investment environment (think warm-blooded animal versus cold-blooded animal as you go into an Ice Age) and generate alpha that way – but I believe that the investment strategies with the largest and most consistent “edge” are, in a very real sense, parasites. What do these parasitic strategies look like? Their number is legion. They exist in every nook and cranny of every public market in the world, and they feed off the behaviors of non-economic or differently-economic market participants. A giant pension fund isn’t engaged in commodity markets because it has an opinion on the contango curve of oil futures; it’s trying to find a diversifying asset class for a massive portfolio that needs inflation protection. If you’re an experienced trader in that market and you see signs of the giant pension fund lumbering through the brush … well, you’re in the wrong business if you can’t skin a few dimes here. This is what good traders DO, and the really good ones have devised effective processes and strategies that comprise a strategy, so that it’s not just a one-off trade but an expression of a consistent informational edge. These strategies are inherently niche-oriented, and they do not scale very well, any more than any single parasite species can scale beyond the size of its host species. But the informational edge is real, which means that the alpha generation is real, and that’s a beautiful thing even if the outward form is as ugly as a hookworm. Why does a parasitic strategy have a bigger informational edge than a non-parasitic strategy? Because market participant behaviors are far more consistent over time than the economic fundamentals of companies or countries. I can predict with 100x more confidence what a giant pension fund is trying to achieve with its market activities than what S&amp;P 500 earnings will actually be next year. World events and market outcomes are utterly unpredictable, especially in a global environment of economic deleveraging, massive monetary policy experimentation, and political fissures the size of the Grand Canyon within and between countries. Human nature, though, is as constant as the northern star. How does a parasitic strategy with an informational edge persist? Why isn’t it arbitraged (or regulated) away? First, remember that we’re talking about the group level, not the individual. Certainly it’s possible to have competition between individual parasitic strategies that split the economic resources taken from the host. But at the group level, just like their biological cousins, effective parasitic investment strategies are largely invisible to their hosts. As Baudelaire said way before Kevin Spacey did in The Usual Suspects, the greatest trick the devil ever pulled was convincing the world he didn’t exist. What’s the pay-off for thinking about alpha-generation investment strategies through this evolutionary perspective? Two big pay-offs, I think. First, one of the trickiest puzzles of effective allocation and risk management for anyone who invests in actively managed funds is trying to figure out the capacity limits of those strategies. This typically isn’t something you worry about with a strategy that is focused on capturing broad market returns or one that uses big liquid securities like S&amp;P e-mini’s to express its portfolio, but it’s a significant concern with funds that claim to have some sort of informational or process edge (alpha generation potential) and express that edge with single-name securities or any sort of liquidity-challenged instrument. There are very powerful formulas in the evolutionary biology toolkit for figuring out both the optimal population size of a parasite species relative to its host as well as the optimal amount of resources that the parasite population should take from the host. This is at the heart of figuring out what behaviors, including size, are evolutionarily stablefor the parasite, and it is directly applicable to alpha-oriented investment strategies with parasitic qualities. Instead of taking a manager’s word on investment capacity or making some rough guess based on the AUM of other managers (which is basically the state of the art today), these ESS tools should allow us to project investment capacity directly for many alpha-generation strategies. Second, it shows how one might create an advanced multi-strat investment platform, one that uses the Adaptive Investing perspective to identify the alpha-generation strategies with the most effective ESS’s, as well as the optimal capacity and allocation characteristics for the market “habitat” in which these strategies operate. Unlike the individual strategies, which inherently scale poorly, a multi-strat structure scales easily, limited only by the number of individual strategies brought under the operational umbrella. Would this sort of investment platform have something of an image problem, intentionally seeking out and unafraid to characterize certain investment strategies as parasites? Maybe. But somehow I think there are plenty of others out there who, like me, can see the evolutionary beauty of these strategies and are not afraid to call them by their proper name. I hope you’ll join me in this exploration. This article originally appeared at Epsilon Theory.  Copyright 2014. Follow Epsilon Theory on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidElliott Management, the hedge fund founded by billionaire Paul Singer, is making an activist play for Juniper Networks, Bloomberg reports. Elliott already has a 6.2% stake in the company, and shares are up almost 7% in pre market trading. The fund's strategy for the company is pretty typical of what The Street's been seeing these days. Elliott will cut costs, and push for a share buy back and dividend payouts. Juniper is the second largest maker of computer networking equipment in the world, but its stock has underperformed the S&amp;P 500 for the last three years, unable to take part in the general boost for stocks. Last week, Elliott offered to by Riverbed Technology for $3.08 billion, a company that analysts expected Juniper Networks might buy itself. Elliott's $19 offer price is likely to set off a bidding war for the company, and its stock jumped 14% on the news. FREE AppDownload
ReutersBeam, the maker of Jim Beam, has agreed to be acquired by Japanese brewing and distillery company Suntory for $13.62 billion.    Shares of Beam were last trading up more than 25% in the pre-market at about $84.30 per share. The stock closed at $66.48 per share on Friday.  This is a huge score for Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital.  As of September 30, 2013 Pershing Square held 20,818,545, or 12.77%, of Beam shares, 13F data compiled by Bloomberg shows. Assuming he hasn't pared back his stake, Ackman has made about $371,016,525 on this position since Friday.  Dealbook's Michael J. De La Merced points out that Ackman was the one who pushed for Beam to split from Fortune Brands a few years ago.  Since Beam became a separate company in October 2011, shares have risen more nearly 24%.  A 13F filing for the quarter ended December 31, 2011, shows that Ackman has held the same amount (20,818,545 shares) of shares in Beam.   That means he has made around $688,499,336 on this position since that time.   FREE AppDownload
Shares are trading up 9% pre-market.  "North America Company-operated restaurants generated a same-restaurant sales increase of 1.9 percent [in 2013], compared to an increase of 1.6 percent in 2012. Franchise same-restaurant sales in North America increased 1.7 percent, compared to an increase of 1.6 percent in 2012," according to the company. "Same-restaurant sales accelerated in the second half of the year compared to the first half. Driving the positive same-restaurant sales growth was the strong consumer reaction to the Company's successful 2013 promotions, most notably, the Pretzel Bacon Cheeseburger, Pretzel Pub Chicken sandwich, and Bacon Portabella Melt on Brioche." Wendy's also posted better margins thanks in part to lower paper bag and beverage costs and a reduction in breakfast advertising. FREE AppDownload
"We were on track to deliver on our sales and earnings guidance through the month of December; however, since the beginning of January, we have seen traffic and sales trends decelerate meaningfully," said CFO John Currie. "Based on this recent performance and assuming these trends continue through the remainder of January, we are reducing our outlook for the fourth quarter." The stock is down 12% in premarket trading. Retail guru Brian Sozzi of Belus Capital Advisors tweeted at Business Insider, reminding us that these two charts from December explain why lululemon shares have fallen out of favor. "Outside of comps having peaked many quarters ago, Lululemon has not found a way to more efficiently and consistently develop its product to drive gross margin expansion relative to the comp slowdown," he said at the time. Sozzi continued: When it DID try and develop its products a little cheaper, #SeeThroughGate reared its ugly head. That is why with increasing competitors attempting to replicate Lululemon's success in a low barrier to entry industry (a strong social media community does not qualify as having a wide moat...), which is eating into market share (see in the comp trend), made it especially critical for the company to bring in a new CEO, as it did, with a deep operations background.  The goal for him will not only be to reignite comps through new categories and global expansion, but to find ways to re-engineer the product to bring down costs and set gross margins back into expansionary territory (and then prepare them for another slowdown cycle well off into the future). By #SeeThroughGate, Sozzi is referring to customer complaining that Lululemon's yoga pants were see-through. Sozzi doesn't recommend investing in Lululemon. FREE AppDownload
There are many types of hedge funds out there offering a variety of strategies. Generally speaking, most hedge funds will try to offer superior returns or stable returns in any market. But according to this chart from Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker, "hedge funds in aggregate are essentially long the S&amp;P 500." The chart shows the correlation between the S&amp;P 500 and a broad equity hedge fund index. The closer a correlation is to 1, the more the two things are in sync. The difference here is that you can buy an index mutual fund with expenses that are a fraction of a fraction of a percent, whereas a hedge fund will charge you 2% then take another 20% of your profits. Of course, not all hedge funds are the same.  And perhaps that's why investor will always make bets on the low probability that they've found the fund manager who can beat the market. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
We'll continue our three-part 2014 forecast series this week by looking at the significant economic macrotrends that have to be understood, as always, as the context for any short-term forecast. These are the forces that are going to inexorably shift and shape our portfolios and businesses. Each of the nine macrotrends I'll mention deserves its own book (and I've written books about two of them and numerous letters on most of them), but we'll pause to gaze briefly at each as we scan the horizon. The Killer D's The first five of our nine macro-forces can be called the Killer D's: Demographics, Deficit, Debt, Deleveraging, and Deflation. And while I will talk about them separately, I am really talking threads that are part of a tapestry. At times it will be difficult to say where one thread ends and the others begin. Demographics – An Upside Down World One of the most basic human drives is the desire to live longer. And there is a school of economics that points out that increased human lifespans is one of the most basic and positive outcomes of economic growth. I occasionally get into an intense conversation in which someone decries the costs of the older generation refusing to shuffle off this mortal coil. Typically, this discussion ensues after I have commented that we are all going to live much longer lives than we once expected due to the biotechnological revolution. Their protests sometimes make me smile and suggest that if they are really worried about the situation, they can volunteer to die early. So far I haven't had any takers. Most people would agree that growth of the economy is good. It is the driver of our financial returns. But older people spend less money and produce far less than younger, more active generations do. Until recently this dynamic has not been a problem, because there were far more young people in the world than there were old. But the balance has been shifting for the last few decades, especially in Japan and Europe. An aging population is almost by definition deflationary. We can see the results in Japan. An aging, conservative population spends less. An interesting story in the European Wall Street Journal this week discusses the significant amount of cash that aging Japanese horde. In Japan there is almost three times as much cash in circulation, per person, as there is in the US. Though Japan is a country where you can buy a soft drink by swiping your cell phone over a vending machine data pad, the amount of cash in circulation is rising every year, and there are actually proposals to tax cash so as to force it back into circulation. A skeptic might note that 38% of Japanese transactions are in cash and as such might be difficult to tax. But I'm sure that Japanese businesses report all of their cash income and pay their full share of taxes, unlike their American and European counterparts. Sidebar: It is sometimes difficult for those of us in the West to understand Japanese culture. This was made glaringly obvious to me recently when I watched the movie 47 Ronin. In the West we may think of Sparta or the Alamo when we think of legends involving heroic sacrifice. The Japanese think of the 47 Ronin. From Wikipedia: The revenge of the Forty-seven Ronin (<U+56DB><U+5341><U+4E03><U+58EB> Shi-ju-shichi-shi, forty-seven samurai) took place in Japan at the start of the 18th century. One noted Japanese scholar described the tale, the most famous example of the samurai code of honor, bushido, as the country's "national legend." The story tells of a group of samurai who were left leaderless (becoming ronin) after their daimyo (feudal lord) Asano Naganori was compelled to commit seppuku (ritual suicide) for assaulting a court official named Kira Yoshinaka, whose title was Kozuke no suke. The ronin avenged their master's honor by killing Kira, after waiting and planning for almost two years. In turn, the ronin were themselves obliged to commit seppuku for committing the crime of murder. With much embellishment, this true story was popularized in Japanese culture as emblematic of the loyalty, sacrifice, persistence, and honor that people should preserve in their daily lives. The popularity of the tale grew during the Meiji era of Japanese history, in which Japan underwent rapid modernization, and the legend became subsumed within discourses of national heritage and identity. The point of my sidebar (aside from talking about cool guys with swords) is that, while Japan may be tottering, the strong social fabric of the country, woven from qualities like loyalty, sacrifice, and diligence, should keep us from being too quick to write Japan off. "Old Europe" is not far behind Japan when it comes to demographic challenges, and the United States sees its population growing only because of immigration. Russia's population figures do not bode well for a country that wants to view itself as a superpower. Even Iran is no longer producing children at replacement rates. At 1.2 children per woman, Korea's birth rates are even lower than Japan's. Indeed, they are the lowest in the World Bank database. A basic equation says that growth of GDP is equal to the rate of productivity growth times the rate of population growth. When you break it down, it is really the working-age population that matters. If one part of the equation, the size of the working-age population, is flat or falling, productivity must rise even faster to offset it. Frankly, developed nations are simply not seeing the rise in productivity that is needed. As a practical matter, when you are evaluating a business as a potential investment, you need to understand whether its success is tied to the growth rate of the economy and the population it serves. In our book Endgame Jonathan Tepper and I went to great lengths to describe the coming crisis in sovereign debt, especially in Europe – which shortly began to play itself out. In the most simple terms, there can come a point when a sovereign government runs up against its ability to borrow money at reasonable rates. That point is different for every country. When a country reaches the Bang! moment, the market simply starts demanding higher rates, which sooner or later become unsustainable. Right up until the fateful moment, everyone says there is no problem and that the government in question will be able to control the situation. If you or I have a debt issue, the solution is very simple: balance our family budget. But it is manifestly more difficult, politically and otherwise, for a major developed country to balance its budget than it is for your average household to do so. There are no easy answers. Cutting spending is a short-term drag on the economy and is unpopular with those who lose their government funding. Raising taxes is both a short-term and a long-term drag on the economy. The best way to get out of debt is to simply hold spending nominally flat and eventually grow your way out of the deficit, as the United States did in the 1990s. Who knew that 15 years later we would be nostalgic for Clinton and Gingrich? But governments almost never take that course, and eventually there is a crisis. As we will see in a moment, Japan elected to deal with its deficit and debt issues by monetizing the debt. Meanwhile, in Europe, the ECB had to step in to save Italy and Spain; Greece, Ireland, and Portugal were forced into serious austerities; and Cyprus was just plain kicked over the side of the boat.  There is currently a lull in the level of concern about government debt, but given that most developed countries have not yet gotten their houses in order, this is a temporary condition. Debt will rear its ugly head again in the not-too-distant future. This year? Next year? 2016? Always we pray the prayer of St. Augustine: "Lord, make me chaste, but not today." Deleveraging and Deflation – They Are Just No Fun At some point, when you have accumulated too much debt, you just have to deal with it. My associate Worth Wray forwarded the following chart to me today. There is no better explanation as to why the current recovery is the weakest in recent history. Deleveraging is a b*tch. It is absolutely no fun. Looking at this chart, I find it rather remarkable and somewhat encouraging that the US has done as well as it has the past few years.  As I've outlined at length in other letters and in Code Red, central banks can print far more money than any of us can imagine during periods of deleveraging and deflation. For the record, I said the same thing back in 2010 when certain hysterical types were predicting hyperinflation and the end of the dollar due to the quantitative easing of the Federal Reserve. I remain actively opposed to the current level of quantitative easing, not because I'm worried about hyperinflation but for other reasons I have discussed in past letters. As long as the velocity of money keeps falling, central banks will be able to print more money than we would have thought possible in the '70s or '80s. And seemingly they can get away with it – in the short term. Of course, payback is a b*tch. When the velocity of money begins to rise again for whatever unknown reason, central banks had better have their ducks in a row! Deflationary conditions make debt worse. If you borrow money at a fixed rate, a little inflation – or even a lot of inflation – helps a great deal. To think that even conservative Republican leaders don't get that is naïve. Certainly it is understood in Japan, which is why the success of Abenomics is dependent upon producing inflation. More on that below. For governments, there is more than one way to deleverage. You can default on your payments, like Greece. We're going to see a lot more of that in the next five years – count on it. Or you can get your central bank to monetize the debt, as Japan is doing. Or get the central bank to convert your debt into 40-year bonds, as Ireland did. (Brilliant move, by the way, for tiny Ireland – you have to stand back and applaud the audacity. I wonder how much good Irish whiskey it took to get the ECB to agree to that deal?) Inflation is falling almost everywhere today, even as central banks are as accommodative as they have ever been. Deflation is the default condition in a deleveraging world. It can even create an economic singularity.  Singularity was originally just a mathematical term for a point at which an equation has no solution. Then, in astrophysics, it was proven that a large-enough collapsing star would become a black hole so dense that its own gravity would cause a singularity in the fabric of space-time, a point where many standard physics equations suddenly have no solution. Beyond the "event horizon" of the black hole, the physics models no longer work. In terms of general relativity, an event horizon is a boundary in space-time beyond which events cannot affect an outside observer. In a black hole it is "the point of no return," i.e., the point at which the gravitational force becomes so large that nothing can escape. Deflation and collapsing debt can create their own sort of black hole, an economic singularity. At that point, the economic models that we have grown comfortable with no longer work. As we approach a potential event horizon in a deflationary/deleveraging world, it can be a meaningless (and extremely frustrating) exercise to try to picture a future that is a simple extension of past economic reality. Any short-term forecast (less than one or two years) has to bear that fact in mind. We Are in a Code Red World We need to understand that there has been a complete bureaucratic and academic capture of central banks. They are all run by neo-Keynesians. (Yes, I know there are some central bankers who disavow the prevailing paradigm, but they don't have the votes.) The default response of any present-day central banker faced with a crisis will be massive liquidity injections. We can argue with the tide, but we need to recognize that it is coming in. When there is a recession and interest rates are at or close to the zero bound, there will be massive quantitative easing and other, even more creative injections of liquidity into the system. That is a reality we have learned to count on and to factor into our projections of future economic possibilities. But as to what set of econometric equations we should employ in coming up with accurate, dependable projections, no one, least of all central bankers, has a clue. We are in unknown territory, on an economic Star Trek, with Captain Bernanke about to turn the helm over to Captain Yellen, going where no reserve-currency-printing central bank has gone before. This is not Argentina or Zimbabwe we are talking about. The Federal Reserve is setting its course based on economic theories created by people whose models are demonstrably terrible. Will we have an outright recession in the US this year? I currently think that is unlikely unless there is some kind of external shock. But short-term interest rates will stay artificially low due to financial repression by the Fed, and there will be an increased risk of further monetary creativity from a Yellen-led Fed going forward. Stay tuned. China, Europe, and Japan – Crises in Waiting We have been waiting for over a decade for a hard landing in China. When you go to Asia it is the number one topic you are questioned about. How long can the Chinese continue to forestall the sort of correction that has needed to take place in every other developed economy in the world? China is undergoing its most serious policy changes of the last 30 years. The new leadership appears to be taking an aggressive stance toward correcting the problems of excess leverage and bank debt that are obvious to anyone who pays attention. The correction will not be easy, and it will be quite costly, but they may in fact have the ability to skate through without the major depression that typically accompanies a massive bank restructuring. What the unintended consequences are remains to be seen. China must be watched. It is a major world power in the midst of restructuring. It is in the process of growing old before it grows rich, something no other country of its size and importance has ever done. At the same time that it is dealing with its banking issues, it is trying to shift to become a consumer economy rather than a cheap-labor economy. Like Singapore, it wants to move up the intellectual-capital chain. Singapore has made important transitions multiple times and is a model to be admired. But China is some 250 times larger than Singapore. And its government institutions, especially at the lower levels, are corrupt and inefficient. There is an apparent recognition by the current new leadership that this is a situation that must change, too. Japan May Be a Moose in Search of a Windshield I have written about Japan on numerous occasions. My classic line is that Japan is a bug in search of a windshield. We devoted chapters to Japan in Code Red. Upon reflection, I think that referring to Japan as a bug might give the wrong impression. We all know what happens to a bug upon impact. It might be more appropriate to think of Japan as a moose. Ask a Canadian what happens when you hit a moose late at night at high speed. While the collision is not good for the moose, the car and driver are not unaffected. Japan has opted to monetize its debt. Given their situation, I would do the same. They have no good choices, only potentially disastrous ones. From their standpoint, monetization makes the most sense. The yen is going to drop inexorably in value over the coming decade, unless they decide to choose disaster B (massive deflation or default), which seems unlikely at the moment. For all intents and purposes, Japan is firing the first missile in what will be a major currency war over the next five to seven years. We have seen such a situation only twice in the past century, and neither of those contests ended well for any of the participants. For the record, and for the sake of full disclosure, shorting the government of Japan is my biggest single investment. That position is going to get much bigger in the next few months, as I am finally able to hedge my new mortgage. I fully intend to let Abe-san and Kuroda-san to pay for half of my new apartment. I will have a very personal vested interest in paying attention to the political situation in Japan. I will keep you updated if I change my mind! The world has never experienced a major nation like Japan monetizing a significant portion of its debt. Weimar Germany, by contrast, was a defeated nation, did not print a reserve currency, and was not accorded the status that Japan has today. Further, Japanese industry brings its A game to the international competitive markets. Biggest head-to-head competitor with Japan? It's not Korea but Germany. And neither country will be happy when the yen is 150 to the dollar. It will be interesting to see the reactions around the world when it is 200 to the dollar. Stay tuned. And then there is Europe. Again, I have written extensively about the debacle (another D) that is Europe. It is going to cost multiple trillions of euros for them to deal with their situation. Essentially, they either have to break up or mutualize their debts. They have to decide whether there will be a fiscal union as well as a monetary union. While I think they will make the hard decision and elect to remain as a monetary union, that course is not a given. The pain that will come from the required austerity in France and other countries is not to be sneezed at. The various nations of Europe will have to give up a measure of independence in their budgetary process in order to get Germany to agree to the mutualization of debt and unleash the hounds of the ECB. The greatest impediment to getting such an agreement may not be in Germany; it may be in France. If Marine Le Pen is the answer, then the French are asking the wrong question. Her policies may have some appeal for the French, but they are ultimately disastrous for the European Union. National Socialism is not an answer that has worked well in Europe. The following cool note on the Germany and its relations with France and the rest of the Eurozone comes from Quartz.com: Germany is justifiably proud of its many world-class products, and bristles when others criticize its export-driven economic model—as US Treasury secretary Jack Lew did yesterday. Critics like Lew contend that the country needs to focus its attention on boosting domestic spending rather than fine-tuning its export machine, in order to benefit its trading partners, particularly less well-off members of the euro zone. On the very day of Lew's rebuke, new data on German foreign trade provided grist for his critique: November exports rose for the fourth consecutive month and imports unexpectedly plunged. But dig into the details and the picture is much more complicated. In the first 11 months of 2013, Germany's trade surplus with the rest of the euro zone was only €1 billion ($1.4 billion); its surplus with non-EU counties was more than €140 billion over the same period.  If German exporters can generate profits by selling goods far from Europe, they may have less incentive to compete with local European suppliers on their home turf. They also gain the financial firepower to spend more at home in Germany, including on imports produced by its hard-up euro zone neighbors. Diving into country-by-country trade details complicates the picture even more. It also becomes clear why you hear little criticism of German exports in Amsterdam, while Paris seems positively obsessed. Germany ran a trade deficit of more than €15 billion with the Netherlands in the first 10 months of 2013 (the latest data available), while Germany's trade surplus with France was worth more than €30 billion. The key goods that Germany trades with other euro zone members are varied, as the chart below shows. It is easy to say that Germany should export less and invest more, but on the ground the policies dealing with exports of aircraft to France will have little impact on vaccines sold to the Netherlands, just as efforts to promote more imports of olive oil from Italy are quite distinct from the trade in cars made in Spain. These and countless other examples make sweeping calls for Germany to "rebalance" its economy more difficult to achieve in practice than on paper. There are no easy solutions for Europe. France has to balance its budget or lose access to the markets, just as Italy and Spain did. This will be the moment of truth for the European Union. I think it probably happens in 2015 or possibly in late 2014. (Although, for the record, I'm almost always early with my predictions. At least I usually get the direction right, and in this case I think the direction is clearly that France is going to have to make difficult decisions in the next few quarters. This is not a country that has made difficult decisions easily in the past, nor is it in a mood to do so today. If you want to see an intriguing and rather blunt article that is provoking furious reaction in France, then I invite you to read the fascinating piece by Janine di Giovanni in Newsweek, entitled the "The Fall of France." This was followed almost immediately by an article in the same magazine entitled "Fall of France II: How a Cockerel Nation Became an Ostrich," which elicited even further outrage in the French press. Given that Ms. Giovanni lives in Paris, I wonder whether she will be the recipient of many invitations to lunch in the coming months. Give her a call if you are in Paris; she may need friends. These articles will give you background to understand how fully difficult it is going to be to turn the French ship around. The majority of the French simply do not want to change the direction in which they are sailing, although they might prefer another captain with another banner. The bond markets have subsidized their wishes a for very long time. I think we are fast approaching the Endgame for Europe. This has been a very brief inventory of the headwinds for economic growth in the next few years. It counterbalances the rather joyous view of the future that I outlined last week. I get the incongruity. How could one be so excited about the future on the one hand and so dismal on the other? That is the main thought conundrum of my life. That and trying to figure out my kids. I've completely given up trying to understand women. We will turn to the third part of the 2014 forecast next week. Some Thoughts from Dubai I finish this letter in my hotel room at the Park Hyatt in Dubai. I visited Abu Dhabi yesterday and drove home in the evening to the towering vision of Dubai. Everyone has always told me you have to see it to understand it, but I really didn't grasp what they meant until I got here. When you try to comprehend the enormity of what they have built in the last 20 – and really in the last 10 – years, it is overwhelming. I get Singapore. Singapore is just as impressive, but it is at the center of one of the most important shipping lanes in the world. I can understand the economics and grasp what Lee Kuan Yew did to wrest his nation from the throes of poverty and turn it into the dynamo that it is today. He is one of the most intriguing personalities of the 20th century. But I am simply staggered by Dubai and Abu Dhabi. This is the ultimate Field of Dreams, built by men who must have a vision that is beyond extraordinary. It is not just about oil, as Dubai has nowhere near the wealth of Abu Dhabi. Oil wealth alone is not enough to ensure the enterprise and generate the vision that I see manifested here. The oil wealth of this region is legendary; and yet across the Straits lies a country with far more oil wealth and cultural heritage, and yet it languishes. The city landscape of Dubai reminds me of the science fiction book covers that we saw 15 to 20 years ago. Today, as I walk out of my hotel room and look across the bay, the towering spires and surreal architecture of science fiction have come to life. There is development everywhere. While some of the office buildings are obviously "see-through," the local home market seems to be booming, particularly since the Arab Spring. I had to make a trip to the local shopping mall. The shops and restaurants were all familiar to someone from the West, yet the cultural diversity was amazing. I must have heard every major language spoken. I've been to 60 countries, and nowhere have I seen the amalgamation of people that I've encountered here – not in London or even New York. Cosmopolitan, clean, and seemingly prosperous, this is a city to be admired. I will admit to not getting the economics of building on such a massive scale in the middle of the desert, but then I'm a country boy from Texas. As if to punctuate my trip, as I was writing this note I began to hear very loud booms outside my ground-floor room. After a second, I recognized the sounds of fireworks. (Hey, I'm in the Middle East, so you know what I thought of first). I walked out of my room to the sidewalk beside the yacht docks and witnessed what was perhaps the most impressive display of fireworks I've ever seen in my life – and I make a point of going to watch fireworks. I truly enjoy them. I guess it's the little kid in me. In the distance you could see multiple fireworks displays going off everywhere you turned. I was lucky in that from my vantage point the main fireworks were almost overhead. Until the culmination of the show, that is, when they began coming even closer. I am hard-pressed to describe the experience; but for you science fiction fans, it was almost as though the gaping maw of one of the great worms in Frank Herbert's Dune was descending ever closer with each burst of flame. I stood in awe, waiting to be engulfed, until it all magically ended. What could have possibly provoked such artistic excess? What great event did all this signify? I walked down the way to the restaurant and asked some of the staff about it. "Oh," they replied, "This is a celebration of National Shopping Week." And with that I will close, as I need to get some sleep so that I can explore little bit more of Dubai before I head to Riyadh tomorrow. I will let you know next week what I see and learn there. In the meantime, have a great week. Your still not all that jaded analyst, John Mauldin, Editorsubscribers@mauldineconomics.com   This article originally appeared at Thoughts From The Frontline.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Steven Perlberg / Business InsiderLONDON (Reuters) - Suntory Holdings Ltd &lt;SUNTH.UL&gt; said on Monday it plans to buy Beam Inc &lt;BEAM.N&gt;, paying $13.6 billion in cash for the shares to make the Japanese company the world's third-largest maker of distilled drinks. Including the assumption of Beam's debt, the deal is worth $16 billion and is expected to close in the second quarter. The acquisition brings together Beam's Jim Beam and Maker's Mark bourbons, Courvoisier cognac and Sauza tequila with Suntory's Yamazaki, Hakushu, Hibiki and Kakubin Japanese whiskies, Bowmore Scotch whisky and Midori liqueur. Suntory will pay $83.50 per share in cash, a 25 percent premium to Beam's closing share price of $66.97 on Friday. Beam's chief executive Matt Shattock and the current Beam management team will continue to lead the business from its headquarters outside Chicago, Illinois, the two companies said. The two already had a business relationship under which Suntory distributes Beam products in Japan and Beam distributes Suntory's products in Singapore and other Asian markets. Suntory intends to fund the acquisition through a combination of cash on hand and fully committed financing from The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ. Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley is acting as financial advisor to Suntory and Cleary Gottlieb Steen &amp; Hamilton LLP is acting as legal advisor. Centerview Partners and Credit Suisse are serving as financial advisors to Beam and Sidley Austin LLP is serving as legal advisor. (Reporting by Martinne Geller in London; Editing by Greg Mahlich) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Scott OlsonGoldman said what now?Dave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus has a roundup of what traders are chatting about ahead of the U.S. market open: Good Morning!   US Futures are starting on a weaker footing this AM, with the E-Minis retreating 30bp.  A lot of reasons for the softness, from Zero Hedge relaying GS’s Kostin that the market is overvalued – to concerns about retail (4 retailers have cut forecasts so far this AM --&gt;  ASNA, LULU, SSI and EXPR.  This comes as ICR starts today and ahead of Advance Retail Sales tomorrow) – to Earnings angst (30 of the 500 SPX companies report - Major Fins like JPM, BAC, AXP and GS – as well as INTC and GE).    Europe remains on strong footing, however – with DAX + 20bp in trading 30% heavier than normal.   EU banks are up another 1%, led by a pop in the Spanish fins on a FT read highlighting cheap funding – Spain’s market is up another 50bp, and best performer in Europe YTD (EWP).   In Asia, Shanghai hit to a 5month low as several IPOs were pulled by their regulator – While Japan was closed for Holiday, Nikkei futures  are off 1.6% as the Yen is near 3week highs to the Dollar.   India is at 52 week highs as the Rupee recovers, and EM ripped higher on the US Yield collapse – Indonesia + 3%, Thailand + 2%.  Single Stock movers in the USA include TWTR +3.5% (GS bumps PT), WEN +5% (Earnings), LULU -7% (guidance), ICPT is off 30% (gravity).   Sectors to focus on include Retailers with ICR kicking off, Autos with the Detroit show, HC with the JPM conference, and Financials with Basel headlines and earnings. Yields in the US remain on 3 week lows, with the 10YY at 2.85%.   The DXY is basically flat caught between a strong yen, and weaker €. – 2 major skews in commodities, with Base Metals like Nickel jumping after a controversial Indonesian government ruling banning miners from exporting unprocessed minerals – and the Oil complex is under pressure on the Iran accord reducing geopolitical risk premiums.   Gold is off small, but remains above the 50dma at 1242, and covering continues in the Agriculture complex on the WASDE data from Friday.   We have a light economic calendar today, with the Employment Trends Index at 10, a small POMO at 11, Fed's Lockhart to Speak on Economic Outlook at 12:40, and the Treasury’s Monthly Budget Statement at 2.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Eric ThayerA man takes part in the annual No Pants Subway Ride in New York January 12, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. — In exchange for relief from sanctions, Iran and six world powers agreed on a nuclear enrichment deal first struck in November. Iran says it will not enrich uranium over 5% for six months beginning January 20 and allow daily UN inspection, freeing up $7 billion in sanctions while a "comprehensive solution" is reached. — Three of America's "big four" banks will report earnings this week, but analysts are expecting to see falling revenue due to decreased loan activity. Fines from regulators could also prove a drag on business, but not to the extent that it will decrease bonus activity. — Workout apparel giant Lululemon has cut its earnings forecast after store traffic dropped off in December. "We were on track to deliver on our sales and earnings guidance through the month of December; however, since the beginning of January, we have seen traffic and sales trends decelerate meaningfully," said Lululemon CFO John Currie. "Based on this recent performance and assuming these trends continue through the remainder of January, we are reducing our outlook for the fourth quarter." — As the cannabis industry lights up Washington and Colorado, the biggest issue facing budding marijuana businesspeople is banking, according to a New York Times report from Serge F. Kovaleski. Pot merchants "are grappling with a pressing predicament: Their businesses are conducted almost entirely in cash because it is exceedingly difficult for them to open and maintain bank accounts, and thus accept credit cards," Kovaleski reports. "Banks, including state-chartered ones, are reluctant to provide traditional services to marijuana businesses. They fear that federal regulators and law enforcement authorities might punish them, with measures like large fines, for violating prohibitions on money-laundering, among other federal laws and regulations." As a result, perfectly legal businesses are hoarding dangerous amounts of cash and stashing suitcases around town. — Target will make "significant changes" after its high-profile data breach debacle over holiday season, the company's CEO Gregg Steinhafel said in an interview with CNBC. The company has installed malware on point of sale registers and is working to figure out who is responsible for the hack that resulted in the stolen personal information of at least 70 million Target customers. — Asian markets were mixed in overnight trading, with Japan's Nikkei and Korea's KOSPI up 0.20% and 0.54% respectively, while Shanghai was down 0.51%. European markets were all trading higher, but U.S. futures were pointing south. — Thailand continues to inch toward a civil war, as protestors "shut down" the capital Monday in protest of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra. "Protesters led by former opposition politician Suthep Thaugsuban started blocking major intersections late on Sunday, aiming to create traffic chaos in a city of an estimated 12 million people where roads are clogged at the best of times," Reuters reports.  — This afternoon at 2:00 p.m., the Treasury will make its monthly budget statement for December. Economists are expecting a $44.0 billion surplus. "Underlying improvement continues as payroll and income tax hikes boost receipts and spending remains restrained by sequester caps, but the main contributor to the positive swing from last year in December is GSE dividend payments," Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman wrote clients. "With regular earnings running near record levels and Freddie Mac making an additional one-off payment for a deferred tax asset accounting reversal (which Fannie Mae did in June), Treasury received a $39 billion GSE dividend on December 31, up from $5 billion a year ago. For all of fiscal year 2014, we see the deficit narrowing to $585 billion, or 3.4% of GDP, from $680 billion, or 4.1% of GDP, in FY 2013." — Bulls beware, the market is getting a little pricey, according to Goldman Sachs' David Kostin. In a new note to clients, Kostin writes that the "biggest surprise is how many investors expect the forward P/E multiple to expand to 17x or 18x." The current aggregate forward P/E multiple is at 15.9. While market participants tend to believe a 15x P/E multiple is the long-term average, "The common perception is wrong." In fact, "Most investors are surprised to learn that since 1976 the S&amp;P 500 P/E multiple has only exceeded 17x during the 1997-2000 Tech Bubble and a brief four-month period in 2003-04. Other than those two episodes, the US stock market has never traded at a P/E of 17x or above." — Leonardo DiCaprio took home the Best Actor for Musical or Comedy prize at last night's Golden Globes for his performance as Jordan Belfort, the drug-addicted 90s-era pump-and-dumper, in Martin Scorsese's The Wolf of Wall Street. Matthew McConaughey, Cate Blanchett, and Amy Adams were among the other winners. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Reuters/StringerChairman of Sinopec Group Fu Chengyu (front C), bows with other employees during a mourning ceremony for the victims of an oil pipeline blast in Qingdao last week, at the company's headquarters in Beijing.Chinese state-owned oil giant Sinopec will pay compensation over a November pipeline explosion at its facility in the city of Qingdao that killed dozens of people and caused losses of more than $100 million, it said. Sinopec is listed in Hong Kong and in a filing to the stock exchange there, said that an official Chinese government investigation determined that "direct economic loss" from the accident totalled 751.72 million yuan ($124.3 million). The company said it "will pay its share of the compensation", although it did not say how much that would be, or what proportion of it would go directly to victims of the disaster, which killed 62 people and injured 136. Sinopec said in the statement Sunday that its pledged compensation would come mostly from company insurance policies, adding that its "production, operation and financial position are currently stable". Citing the probe by China's State Administration of Work Safety, it said the direct cause of the explosion was vapours from oil leaking from an underground pipeline, which were ignited by sparks from a hydraulic hammer. The investigation also found that Sinopec and its subsidiaries' failure to ensure safe operations contributed to the accident, as did local authorities' failure to properly conduct safety inspections and identify risks, Sinopec's statement said. The huge blast ripped roads apart, turned cars over and sent thick black smoke billowing over the city. The explosion happened seven hours after an oil leak was first spotted, and questions remain as to why local residents were not ordered to evacuate in the intervening period. According to state media 15 people, including unspecified numbers of Sinopec employees and Qingdao city staff, have been detained in connection with the explosion. Sinopec issued an apology for the incident but denied that it was slow to respond. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
lululemon / FlickrMaker of yoga gear Lululemon is out with an earnings warning. From the release: For the fourth quarter, the Company now anticipates that net revenue will be in the range of $513 million to $518 million based on comparable-store sales in the negative low-to-mid single digits on a constant-dollar basis. This compares to the Company's previous guidance of net revenue in the range of $535 million to $540 million for the fourth quarter based on flat comparable-store sales on a constant-dollar basis. The Company also now expects diluted earnings per share will be in the range of $0.71 to $0.73 for the quarter. The previous EPS guidance for the fourth quarter was a range of $0.78 to $0.80. EPS guidance continues to assume 146.0 million diluted weighted-average shares outstanding and a 30.0% tax rate. John Currie, lululemon’s CFO stated: "We were on track to deliver on our sales and earnings guidance through the month of December; however, since the beginning of January, we have seen traffic and sales trends decelerate meaningfully. Based on this recent performance and assuming these trends continue through the remainder of January, we are reducing our outlook for the fourth quarter." Mr. Currie continued: "As we end 2013, we are starting to see the results of the significant investments we made throughout this past year to strengthen and enhance our back-of-house product operations structure. While we realize that it will require continued investment and time to get to best-in-class status, with our new leadership in place we are very focused on building on this stronger foundation to execute our long-term growth strategies." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerAn investor naps in front of an electronic board showing stock information at a brokerage house in Wuhan, Hubei province.There have been numerous theories attempting to explain China's stock market's lackluster performance in recent years. One of those explanations focused on the need for reform. Once the economy and the markets undergo some key reforms, the market will take off. At least that was one of the theories. So now that some major reforms have been announced (see story), why hasn't the market responded? Donald Straszheim of the ISI Group wrote a comment this weekend that provides a hint... ISI: - This week, PM Li said that China has entered a transition period - from 'high growth' to 'medium-high growth'. He's got the direction right. Li also indicated that China is losing its competitive edge in low- and medium-level (tech) products. He's right, sharp wage gains are eroding the Middle Kingdom's competitiveness. His solution - China must rely more on technological innovations to drive future growth. Unfortunately, innovation is and will remain, we believe, China's weak point. In other words, if innovation is China's future - that future is grim. China is a technology adaptor; it is not an innovator. Li made the above remarks at an annual government-sponsored meeting which highlights major accomplishments (and makes monetary awards) in the science and technology arena. SoberLook  FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockBEIJING (Reuters) - China's policy fine-tuning and ongoing urbanization can help it to avoid a Japan-style property bubble, a senior housing official said, amid fears a housing market crash could lead to a hard landing for the world's second-largest economy. Beijing has allowed local governments to take differentiated property tightening measures, rather than a one-size-fits-all bid to cool the market, Vice Housing Minister Qiu Baoxing said in remarks published in the Southern Metropolis Daily. He said Japan's property bubble burst in the 1980s, when the country's urbanization was near an end and it could not generate fresh drivers to keep the market afloat. "China is some time away from reaching that point. If we understand the issue and adopt fine-tuning policies, things could be turned around," Qiu was quoted as saying. China's housing prices in November soared 9.9 percent from a year earlier - the quickest annual pace on record, according to Reuters calculations based on official data, but signs have emerged that the government's four-year effort to cool the market may be starting to bear fruit. Such fast gains have stirred strong debate on whether there is a bubble in China's real estate market and when it will burst, which could lead the economy to a hard landing. China's housing minister said in December that China would maintain controls on its property market in 2014 while increasing land and housing supply in cities facing big home-price increases. China's central government did not introduce any nationwide property curbs since the new leadership formally took office in March 2013, but local authorities in some areas have taken targeted steps to try to cool prices, including raising minimum down payments for second homes and promising more land for building. Those measures have started to bite, with official figures showing monthly property price gains in November were the slowest this year, pointing to a moderation in rises in the coming months. But ordinary Chinese in most cities still face home prices that are well beyond their reach as the unrelenting rise has been buoyed by a view that property remains one of the best investments. (Reporting By Xiaoyi Shao and Kevin Yao; Editing by Jacqueline Wong) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Adrees Latif DUBAI (Reuters) - The ruler of Dubai, a Gulf trade and investment hub with strong links to Iran, said in remarks broadcast on Monday that the international community should ease sanctions on the Islamic Republic. Under a deal struck in November, Iran is expected to curb its nuclear activity in exchange for a limited easing of the international sanctions. The pact will come into force January 20, Iran and world powers agreed on Sunday. Asked whether he thought it was time to lift the sanctions, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, who is also the Prime Minister of the United Arab Emirates, told British broadcaster the BBC: "I think so and give Iran a space... Iran is our neighbor and we don't want any problem, he said, adding that "everybody will benefit". Despite a decade of sanctions, Iran has managed to get most of the commodities and goods it needs via Dubai's flourishing re-export market, although new embargoes imposed by the United States and its allies in late 2011 and early 2012 have hit it hard. The vast majority of trade between Iran and its Gulf Arab neighbors is routed through Dubai, home to tens of thousands of ethnic Iranians and one of seven emirates making up the United Arab Emirates. Iran says its atomic energy program is aimed purely at electricity generation and other civilian purposes, although past Iranian attempts to hide sensitive nuclear activity from U.N. non-proliferation inspectors raised concerns. "I think they're telling the truth when they say just for civilian power," Sheikh Mohammed said in the interview. SISI SHOULD STAY IN ARMY Shortly after the November 24 deal, Iran's foreign minister Mohammad Javad Zarif went to the UAE to try and improve relations with the U.S. ally. Across the Gulf from Iran, the UAE stands to benefit directly from any easing of sanctions under the nuclear deal that have dampened regional trade. Zarif met Sheikh Mohammed during his December visit and the UAE was the first Gulf Arab state to cautiously welcome November's nuclear deal. The UAE foreign minister flew to Iran days later, calling for a partnership with the Islamic Republic. The six Sunni Muslim-ruled members of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) are wary of Iranian power in theMiddle East, fearing the Shi'ite Muslim-led country is seeking regional dominance and stirring sectarian tension.Tehran denies this. But they have also welcomed Iran's "new direction" under President Hassan Rouhani and said Tehran should do more to promote stability in the region. Sheikh Mohammed also said Egypt, which is due to vote on a constitutional referendum this week, was better off without Islamist President Mohamed Mursi who was deposed by the army in July after mass protests against his rule. The UAE is deeply mistrustful of the Muslim Brotherhood and relations soured when Mursi became Egypt's first freely elected president after the downfall of autocrat Hosni Mubarak in 2011. The UAE, along with Sunni powerhouse Saudi Arabia, have championed army chief General Abdel Fattah el-Sisiwho deposed Mursi, and have poured billions of dollars to shore up the country's beleaguered economy since Mursi's downfall. There has been widespread speculation about whether Sisi, who is depicted by his supporters as a savior who will restore stability to the shaken country, would run for presidential elections slated for later this year. Sheikh Mohammed said Sisi was better off in the army, saying: "I hope he stays in the army. And someone else (stands) for the presidency." On Syria, Sheikh Mohammed said the UAE was only comfortable supporting displaced Syrians in Jordan andTurkey, as opposed to providing support to rebel groups, some of whom are extremist in nature. ($1 = 3.6730 UAE dirhams) (Writing by Yara Bayoumy; Editing by William Maclean and Jon Boyle) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Heritage Auctions The tyrannosaur of the minerals, this gold nugget in quartz weighs more than 70 ounces (2 kilograms).OURANOUPOLI, Greece (Reuters) - A Canadian quest to mine for gold in the lush forests of northern Greece is testing the government's resolve to prove Europe's most ravaged economy is open again for business. The Skouries mine on Halkidiki peninsula - a landscape of pristine beaches and rolling hills dotted with olive groves - is among the biggest investments in Greece since it sank into a debt crisis four years ago. But it has set Greece's desperate need for finance to rebuild the economy against the interests of its vital tourism industry, and aroused anger on the peninsula - site of the famed Mount Athos monasteries - over the environmental cost. Vancouver-based Eldorado Gold Corp took over the project in 2012, promising to invest $1 billion over the next five years as part of a plan to mine eventually source up to 30 percent of its global gold production in Greece. Yet preliminary work on the mine, which is supposed to open in 2016, has set off months of politicking and protests. The row has overshadowed what was supposed to be the flagship project of the government's foreign investment drive. It also highlights Greeks' ambivalence about attempts by Prime Minister Antonis Samaras to kindle industrial growth in an economy that has traditionally relied on tourism and services. Last year, intruders barged into the mine with hunting rifles, set equipment on fire and doused security guards with fuel, threatening to burn them alive. Local protesters, who say they reject violence and have the backing of some opposition politicians in parliament, fear the mine will destroy Halkidiki's tourist riches. Samaras, however, has warned that foreign investments would be protected at "any cost". "Rightly or wrongly, God endowed the region with ores, and we must first decide whether we (Greeks) want to exploit it or not," said Petros Stratoudakis, CEO of the company developing the mine, Hellas Gold. Eldorado owns 95 percent of Hellas Gold, which also has other mining projects in Halkidiki, with the rest held by Ellaktor, Greece's biggest construction company. MONEY SPINNER Halkidiki has a rich history. The Eastern Orthodox monasteries nestled in the hills of Mount Athos are an artistic treasure and UNESCO World Heritage site. But northern Greece has also long been fertile territory for explorers. Macedonian King Alexander the Great mined for gold in the hilly forests to finance his conquests into Asia 2,300 years ago, according to local authorities. Eldorado executives say gold mining could become a significant money-spinner for modern-day Greece, bringing in foreign currency and helping to diversify an economy that is struggling with 27 percent unemployment. "The conditions that exist particularly in northeast Greece are unique in my mind," Eldorado CEO Paul Wright said in an interview. "I've been in the industry for 35 years and I've yet to see a situation where there is such a mineral endowment that is being recognized - in many cases quantified - but remains unutilized." Under its five-year plan, Eldorado gives the authorities a minimum 3 million euros ($4 million) a year, laid down in a new royalty scheme. Local people make up 90 percent of 1,600 workers the company and its contractors employ now. At its peak, Eldorado says they will employ over 2,000 workers at their mines in Halkidiki. The Canadian company has the strong backing of the conservative-led government of Samaras, who has tried to drum up foreign investment to inject life into the economy since coming to power in June 2012. "Growth means investments. Those who drive investments away do not want growth. When they occupy factories they do not want growth," Samaras said last month. "When they try to cancel legitimate investments and keep fighting against them although they have been fully approved - as they did at Skouries in Halkidiki - they do not want investments." THICK WITH ANGER In Halkidiki's seaside village of Ouranoupoli where aquamarine waters hug a strip of hotels, fish tavernas and little shops selling wine, olive oil and religious icons, the air hangs thick with anger against the mine. "No to gold mining" is scribbled on the walls by the port, emblazoned on t-shirts worn by waitresses at a beach taverna and scrawled on the wooden pier where children jump into the crystal clear waters. The villagers - who make a living catering to mainly Balkan and Russian tourists who flock to Halkidiki's sandy beaches - are afraid the mine will destroy their livelihood by scaring away visitors and turn the area into an industrial zone. "Who will come then here to swim and eat our fish?," asked Chryssa Likaki, a 52-year-old real estate agent as she sat one evening with other residents at a waterfront cafe, a short walk from where tourists take boat rides to see Mount Athos. She and other residents argue such a "pharaonic project" will drain the region's water basin and pollute the water supply, send out 3,000 tonnes of dust per hour into the air and destroy the local forest. They also say cyanide used in the production process poses a health risk to the local community. Company officials counter that there will be no dust cloud, Skouries needs only 0.09 percent of Halkidiki's forest, the projects have all the necessary environmental permits, the region will not be drained dry and that cyanide will be used in a nearby mining plant but not in the quantities villagers fear. But in a country where suspicion of authority runs deep, the villagers say they see no reason to believe the company's promises or that officials will hold them to it. "Come on, we live in Greece," laughs Likaki. "We don't trust the state." In Ierissos, a village where banners proclaim "You can't buy water with all the gold in the world" and "Extracting gold with blood", tensions have run so high that an abandoned police station was set on fire and burned down in April last year. Michalis Theodorakopoulos, the general manager of the company's Kassandra Mines that includes the Skouries project, accuses anti-mining groups of sowing fear among villagers, a situation exacerbated by local politics and jealousy that pits one village against the other. "They have invested in fear, they have invested in lies, in panic," he said. "The situation in the area is a microcosm reflecting the reality in Greece with petty political interests prevailing." WILD WEST The mine has become a cause celebre among leftists and anti-austerity activists in Greece, prompting marches and debates in Athens, an eight-hour drive to the south. Fans of the PAOK soccer team in the nearby city of Thessaloniki held up anti-mining banners during games when word spread that Hellas Gold wanted to become a sponsor. The main opposition party, Syriza, is among those that oppose the project. The leftist party, which is againstGreece's international bailout and austerity policies, says the project will destroy more jobs than it creates and the deal allowing Eldorado to take over the mine was a "scandal" that fails to benefit the Greek state. "It's like the Wild West up there. The company's name shows what kind of conditions underpin this investment,"Dimitris Papadimoulis, a senior Syriza lawmaker, told Reuters. "Police, local authorities and state power are used to protect private interests to the detriment of public interest." Samaras in turn has promised to end "this impunity of some people who pretend they want (economic) growth but only block every growth project". "I travel across Europe and I hear other prime ministers discussing efforts to attract future investments in their region but we are doing everything to push investments away," he said. "It's embarrassing." Some of that embarrassment extends to the rural heartland in Stratoni that houses Eldorado's local office. There, 38-year-old mine worker Manolis Manthos says he is content to have a job year-round that pays 1,150 euros a month net and does not understand the drama around the project. "One thing is certain - the situation is out of control," he said. ($1 = 0.7361 euros) (Editing by Alessandra Galloni and David Stamp) FREE AppDownload
Ben Franske, Wikimedia commons We imagine this call is going to get a lot of debate going about how expensive stocks are right now, and the durability of this rally. Goldman equity strategist David Kostin declares in his latest 'Weekly Kickstart' note that the market is getting pricey. These three paragraphs pack a major punch. Bulls should take heed: The current valuation of the S&amp;P 500 is lofty by almost any measure, both for the aggregate market as well as the median stock: (1) The P/E ratio; (2) the current P/E expansion cycle; (3) EV/Sales; (4) EV/EBITDA; (5) Free Cash Flow yield; (6) Price/Book as well as the ROE and P/B relationship; and compared with the levels of (6) inflation; (7) nominal 10-year Treasury yields; and (8) real interest rates. Furthermore, the cyclically-adjusted P/E ratio suggests the S&amp;P 500 is currently 30% overvalued in terms of (9) Operating EPS and (10) about 45% overvalued using As Reported earnings. Reflecting on our recent client visits and conversations, the biggest surprise is how many investors expect the forward P/E multiple to expand to 17x or 18x. For some reason, many market participants believe the P/E multiple has a long-term average of 15x and therefore expansion to 17-18x seems reasonable. But the common perception is wrong. The forward P/E ratio for the S&amp;P 500 during the past 5-year, 10-year, and 35- year periods has averaged 13.2x, 14.1x, and 13.0x, respectively. At 15.9x, the current aggregate forward P/E multiple is high by historical standards. Most investors are surprised to learn that since 1976 the S&amp;P 500 P/E multiple has only exceeded 17x during the 1997-2000 Tech Bubble and a brief four-month period in 2003-04. Other than those two episodes, the US stock market has never traded at a P/E of 17x or above. As you can see in this chart, since 1976, the only times that PE ratios have been higher than where they are now were during the tech bubble. Goldman Sachs And if you look at median PE ratios, this moment looks even richer. Goldman Sachs What's more, looking back through several cycles, we're above where we normally are when the market peaks. Goldman Sachs The rest of the note walks through other indicators suggesting market richness. Kostin doesn't think markets are going to tank or anything like that. Instead it's just predicting modest gains. But still, this is a level of skepticism towards the real bull case that we're not used to seeing at all from the street right now. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sean Yong Fridays' bad jobs report aside, it's hard for people to sink their teeth into anything that really worries them right now. The consensus view of the economy is that 2014 will be the best year since the crisis, and that we're probably reaching "escape velocity" right about now. Europe isn't looking all that pretty, and some economies are especially weak, but most people believe in an ongoing muddle through.  Japan looks like it will probably expand at a decent base (by Japanese standards). If there's one area of concern for people right now, it's probably China. That's the view expressed by Morgan Stanley strategist Joachim Fels, as expressed in his latest Sunday Start note:  Conversations with institutional investors and colleagues at our LatAm conference also reinforced my impression that there is a very strong consensus in the investment community about the global macro outlook for this year. People are constructive on economic growth in the advanced economies, especially for the US but also for Japan and Europe, and think EM economies will lag but do somewhat better this year than last year. They are bullish on equities, moderately constructive on credit, and moderately bearish on government bonds. In currencies, everybody loves the dollar, especially against the yen but also against the euro. It’s important to note that this broadly gels with our baseline macro views and that the consensus is more often right than wrong. But still, I can’t help that slight feeling of nausea when everybody holds the same view. What could go wrong? One thing that could go wrong is China. The consensus view is that the authorities have everything under control and that the transition from export- and leverage-driven growth to consumption- and reform-driven growth will go smoothly. Our worry is that this transition, while likely to be successful eventually, will turn out be more tricky in the near term, mainly because financial conditions have tightened considerably, as evidenced by higher money market rates and bond yields. This in turn is likely to produce a sharper-than-expected downturn in China’s growth during the first half of this year, which may well lead to renewed fears of a hard landing. A related worry is that the wobbles in China could contribute to a risk-off move in Asia (and perhaps globally), which would benefit the Japanese yen temporarily. In fact, our currency team, led by Hans Redeker, who called the 4Q13 rally in USD/JPY right, looks for a counter-rally in the yen to below 100 in the current quarter. My impression from many client conversations is that not many people are positioned for such a move. One thing that makes China interesting is not just the risk of some kind of sharper-than-expected downturn, but also the stakes. China has an outsize trade relationship with so many countries, that a sharp downturn would have significant ripple effects towards those exporting into the boom. Fels isn't the only one who thinks China is where the world is particularly interesting. George Soros recently laid out his concerns in a piece up at Project Syndicate: The major uncertainty facing the world today is not the euro but the future direction of China. The growth model responsible for its rapid rise has run out of steam. That model depended on financial repression of the household sector, in order to drive the growth of exports and investments. As a result, the household sector has now shrunk to 35% of GDP, and its forced savings are no longer sufficient to finance the current growth model.This has led to an exponential rise in the use of various forms of debt financing.  There are some eerie resemblances with the financial conditions that prevailed in the US in the years preceding the crash of 2008. But there is a significant difference, too. In the US, financial markets tend to dominate politics; in China, the state owns the banks and the bulk of the economy, and the Communist Party controls the state-owned enterprises.  In conversations, we've heard others express similar concerns. Some important notes need to be made. One is that people have been warning of a Chinese hard landing every year for years. There might also be some element of worrying about China by default, since it's hard to pinpoint risks every year. But if there is a consensus view on the big risk to the global economy in 2014, then we'd say China is it. FREE AppDownload
Mark Wilson/Getty ImagesSo it's a pretty quiet start to the week. People are still digesting surprise jobs report miss, and trying to figure out what it means for the economy. So far the conclusion is that it probably doesn't mean that much. Markets are mostly doing nothing, though there are some exceptions. The Jakarta stock market had a huge one-day gain of 3.23%. Other emerging market indices were solid, including Egypt (yesterday). India was up 1.3% today. Turkey is currently up 0.6%, and Thailand is up 1.3%. There is no major economic data coming today. FREE AppDownload
