NEW YORK (Reuters) - A New York state judge on Friday approved most of Bank of America Corp's &lt;BAC.N&gt; $8.5 billion settlement with investors over toxic mortgage securities, but left a caveat that could complicate the bank's efforts to implement the deal. Justice Barbara Kapnick ruled that Bank of New York Mellon &lt;BK.N&gt;, the trustee representing investors, had acted mostly in good faith in agreeing to the settlement. But she withheld her approval for one part of the settlement where she said the trustee had not acted reasonably. A spokesman for Bank of America said the bank did not expect that Kapnick's exclusion would hold up the accord. But a lawyer for American International Group Inc &lt;AIG.N&gt;, which led investors that opposed the settlement, said the insurer foresees a long legal fight ahead. Bank of America agreed to the settlement in June 2011 to resolve the claims of investors who had bought $174 billion of mortgage-backed securities issued by Countrywide before the U.S. housing crisis. The investors said Countrywide misrepresented the quality of the underlying home mortgages, which went sour in the crisis. Countrywide, based in Calabasas, California, was the biggest home mortgage lender in the United States until the housing market collapsed, specializing in so-called subprime loans, most of which it packaged into securities and resold to investors. It was bought by Bank of America in 2008. A group of 22 investors supported the settlement, including institutions such as BlackRock Inc &lt;BLK.N&gt;,MetLife Inc &lt;MET.N&gt; and Allianz SE's &lt;ALVG.DE&gt; Pacific Investment Management Co. But investors led by AIG &lt;AIG.N&gt; objected, arguing that they were cut out of negotiations and that there was no evidence the settlement was big enough. In her ruling on Friday, Kapnick wrote that, at the time the settlement was reached, it was clear Bank of New York Mellon was concerned that Countrywide would not be able to pay a future judgment that approached $8.5 billion, and believed it was reasonable to lock in a one-time payment. This was especially so, given that it was "uncertain, at best" whether Bank of America would be held responsible for Countrywide's liabilities, she wrote. Kapnick found that "the trustee did not abuse its discretion in entering into the settlement agreement and did not act in bad faith or outside the bounds of reasonable judgment." Kapnick made one exception in her ruling, withholding her approval from settlement of claims relating to certain loans that Countrywide had modified. Bank of New York Mellon should not have settled those claims without investigating their potential worth, she said. It was not clear what impact the judge's exclusion would have on the settlement. "The issue has the prospect of adding another wrinkle in the timing of the next steps and eventually in determining when the cash flows get paid to bondholders," analysts at Barclays said in a report for clients. The loan modification question was raised by Triaxx funds, which argued during the lengthy proceedings that Bank of New York Mellon failed to investigate claims by investors relating to the modified mortgages. "We're still assessing the impact of the carve-out," John Moon, a lawyer representing the Triaxx entities, said of Kapnick's exclusion. Bank of America shares closed down 1.1 percent to $16.75 Friday. Representatives of Bank of America and Bank of New York Mellon both said they were pleased with the decision. "We believe any outstanding issues raised in the opinion can be addressed without undue delay," said Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America. A lawyer for AIG, Mark Zauderer, took the opposite view. He said the insurer was pleased by the judge's exception for modified loans but disagreed with the other aspects of the ruling. "This case is very far from over because the settlement will not take effect until many potential post-trial motions and appeals are resolved," Zauderer said in a statement. He also called the loan modification issue "critical." Kathy Patrick, who represented the institutional investors who supported the deal, did not return a call for comment The settlement is part of Bank of America's efforts to put liabilities for the financial crisis behind it. It has agreed to pay more than $45 billion to end disputes that came from the financial crisis, including the $8.5 billion Countrywide settlement. Bank of New York Mellon sought judicial approval of the settlement two-and-a-half years ago. As the case dragged on, the number of opponents dwindled. Among them, the attorneys general of New York and Delaware, who intervened in the proceeding in 2011, said last May they would no longer block the accord. Kapnick oversaw a months-long proceeding to determine whether to approve the settlement, which ended on November 21. [ID:nL2N0J5203] Her ruling on Friday came just days before she was to take up a new post on a New York state appeals court on February 3. [ID:nL2N0KR1YX] The case is In re Bank of New York Mellon, New York State Supreme Court, New York County, No. 651786/2011. (Reporting by Karen Freifeld; Editing by Eddie Evans and Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
ReutersA laborer cleans a steel ladle at Wuhan Iron and Steel GroupOfficial Chinese manufacturing PMI fell to a six-month low of 50.5 in January. This was in line with expectations but down from 51 in December. A reading below 50  indicates contraction. We already saw HSBC PMI fall to 49.5 in January, suggesting that manufacturing is contracting. This was the first contraction in six months. Economists warns about reading too much into data that is out in January or February because of the impact of the Lunar New Year holiday. "The problem with the Lunar New Year, as far as Chinese statistics go, is that it's lunar," Patrick Chovanec of Silvercrest Asset Management told Business Insider ahead of the data release.  "It doesn't fall on the same day each year.  Sometimes it falls in late January, sometimes in early February." But some attribute the slowdown in manufacturing to the slower pace of credit growth we've seen recently. The official PMI surveys a larger sample than the HSBC PMI, it also has more exposure to state owned enterprises, while the latter has more exposure to small and medium enterprises. FREE AppDownload
Little more than an hour after the administration of New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie (R) issued a statement rebuking a former Port Authority official's claims about his role in the George Washington Bridge scandal, Christie showed up at shock jock Howard Stern's birthday party in New York. Here's a photo of Christie introducing Jon Bon Jovi at the birthday party:  Gov. Chris Christie introducing Jon Bon Jovi #Howard pic.twitter.com/JQn1ikgtff  A lawyer for David Wildstein, the former Port Authority official and Christie ally, said Friday that there was evidence the Governor knew about the closure of lanes onto the George Washington Bridge from Fort Lee, N.J., as they were happening in September. In a statement late Friday evening, the Christie administration denied Wildstein's claims. "Mr. Wildstein's lawyer confirms what the Governor has said all along — he had absolutely no prior knowledge of the lane closures before they happened and whatever Mr. Wildstein's motivations were for closing them to begin with," Christie's office said in the statement. "As the Governor said in a December 13th press conference, he only first learned lanes were closed when it was reported by the press and as he said in his January 9th press conference, had no indication that this was anything other than a traffic study until he read otherwise the morning of January 8th. The Governor denies Mr. Wildstein's lawyer's other assertions." FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Obama administration is considering nominating Citigroup economist Nathan Sheets to be the Treasury Department's top official for international affairs, according to two sources familiar with the matter. If nominated and confirmed by the Senate, Sheets would be a key figure in U.S. financial and economic diplomacy and would help lead international discussions on the global economy. This would include pressing Washington's view that China should let its currency appreciate more quickly and that Europe should act more decisively to boost economic growth. As the Treasury's undersecretary for international affairs, Sheets would have to field questions from emerging market nations whose markets are reeling from a dramatic reversal of money flows tied partly to the U.S. Federal Reserve's decision to curtail its economic stimulus. He would also get an earful from developing countries frustrated by U.S. intransigence in following through on a promise to give emerging economies a bigger say at the International Monetary Fund. The Treasury post was previously occupied by Lael Brainard, who stepped down last year and was nominated by President Barack Obama earlier this month to serve on the Fed's board of governors. The White House and the Treasury Department had no comment, while Sheets did not immediately respond to an e-mail request for comment. Sheets has been the global head of international economics at Citi in New York since 2011. He was hired in part to focus on the position of the United States in the global economy. Prior to joining Citi, which is one of the world's largest banking conglomerates, Sheets spent much of his career as an economist at the Fed. At one point he was an adviser to Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke on international economics. "(He's) highly experienced and well-respected in both the public and private sectors," said Timothy Adams, who held the under secretary for international affairs post at the Treasury during the administration of President George W. Bush. Adams, who now heads the Institute of International Finance, said Sheets would have "no learning curve." When Citi announced it had hired Sheets in 2011, the bank said Sheets had been a driving force behind the Fed's efforts to fight the spread of the 2007-09 financial crisis across international borders. At the time, the Fed entered currency swap agreements with central banks around the world. Sheets also spent time as an adviser to Washington's representative at the International Monetary Fund, serving as a liaison between the international lender and U.S. government agencies. "He has the right profile to do the job," said Angel Ubide, a fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. (Reporting by Jason Lange; Additional reporting by Anna Yukhananov; Editing by Dan Grebler and Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
With word that 22-year Microsoft veteran Satya Nadella is likely the new CEO, attention turns to the leadership of the company's board of directors. It will have two former CEOs, Bill Gates and Steve Ballmer. So new thinking is unlikely to come from them. In fact, Gates has a track record of huge strategic errors that have cost the company years of progress in market share. Here's why he should be the one to go: 1. Gates' world was: Go slow. Microsoft needs to change its corporate culture. Today’s tech companies try to move fast and fail. They can fail because they move fast, which means that they can fix a mistake as fast as they create one. Microsoft has a historical culture of moving slow and not failing. That comes from a time when people installed software once very three years. Times have changed. Now companies deliver software via the cloud and can add or roll back new features every day. 2. He almost missed the Internet. The Internet rose during Gates time as CEO, and he actually wasn't an Internet visionary. He entered the browser market long after Netscape, for example. His efforts to catch up and crush Netscape led Microsoft into an epic antitrust judgement and 10 years of oversight by the Department of Justice. Ultimately Microsoft’s Internet products (browsers, web servers,  development tools) did well and grabbed lots of market share. But Microsoft and Gates didn’t lead here, they followed, and almost disastrously so. 3. Speaking of the Internet, there’s Bing. Bing is a fine service, but Microsoft will never beat Google by being a me-too search site. New leadership needs to figure that out. 4. Gates not only missed the software open-source revolution, he was its No. 1 enemy. Open source, which is where developers freely share the code they create, has been a major change in the software industry in the past decade. It's almost a religion with young idealistic programmers. Gates (and Ballmer) saw it as a threat and threatened to sue it out of existence. They’ve since softened their stance about some forms of open source. But bad blood still exists. Gates got this one very wrong. 3. Like Ballmer, Gates missed the mobile revolution. By a mile. For years, Microsoft maintained that the PC would be the central device in all personal computing. Now, the PC is just one of many devices that are powered primarily by the cloud. And there are now fewer PCs sold than smartphones and tablets. 4. Gates didn’t spot the cloud early, either. Salesforce.com was founded in 1999, when Gates was still CEO of Microsoft. Once again, Microsoft entered cloud late and is now playing catch up to Amazon with Azure, and to Google with Office 365. Gates is not a cloud visionary. 5. Gates could have nipped the Windows 8 disaster in the bud. There was exhaustive user testing while Windows was being developed indicating that people didn't like Windows 8. Then Windows chief Steven Sinofsky plowed ahead anyway. Gates was chairman during all this. Windows is his legacy. Why didn’t he step up with one of his epic rants and turn that ship around? 6. Gates let Ballmer do the Surface tablet. The Surface, which combines hardware and software, was guaranteed to cause trouble with Microsoft’s biggest hardware partners. And it has. HP, for instance, one of the world's biggest PC makers, has publicly called Microsoft a competitor and run to Google. Then Gates let Ballmer double down on hardware and buy Nokia for $7 billion. Meanwhile, Google has announced plans to sell its own hardware business. 7. Gates let Ballmer buy Skype for $8.5 billion. The grand strategy of that was ... what? 8. The late bloomer thing has got to stop. With Gates at the helm, Microsoft became a company that tried to enter every successful tech market late, and then spent enormous resources catching up. This worked for a while, when the PC really was the center of the world. But now that has changed, and following won't work anymore. 9. Gates is a brilliant philanthropist. In recent years, Gates has found his visionary role solving hard problems like poverty, illness, education, which obviously thrills him. Having two former CEOs on the board will hinder a new CEO's ability to make the changes Microsoft needs to move forward. So, it's time for Bill Gates to leave Microsoft and concentrate on the philanthropic work that he loves. FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Brian Belski: 'There's One Fundamental Principle That Has Escaped Market Logic' (BMO Capital Markets)  The emerging market stress we've seen recently has dampened some optimism on U.S. stocks. This is because "many investors are worried that any prolonged emerging market weakness will be a harbinger for global economic struggles and particularly damaging for US stock performance," writes Brian Belski at BMO Capital Markets. "…We strongly disagree with the notion that higher US stock prices require emerging market participation." This is in part because the emerging market trend began closer to the end of October and U.S. economic data is "headed in the right direction," and lower commodity prices are good for U.S. consumers. But there's more to it than that.  "One fundamental principle that has seemingly escaped market logic from time to time is that index price and EPS levels tend to move very closely together over time. Since 1960, S&amp;P 500 EPS and price levels have exhibited a nearly perfect 0.95 correlation. So while the debate regarding the impact of emerging market weakness on US economic growth is likely to persist, the current and anticipated strength in corporate earnings should support stock prices at current levels." Index Funds Trounced Active Funds Last Year (Investment News)  U.S. investors put $115 billion into index mutual funds in 2013, according to data compiled by the Investment Company Institute. This trounced the $38.3 billion that investors put into actively managed mutual funds. ETFs pulled in a whopping $180 billion.  Emerging Markets See Massive Outflows (Societe Generale)  Amid the rout in emerging markets this past week, investors spilled out of the region. The EPFR data shows that investors pulled $6.3 billion out of emerging market equity funds and $2.7 billion from emerging market debt funds. This was the biggest weekly outflow since August 2011. "EM outflows have only just started," says Alain Bokobza, head of strategy at Société Générale. "Given the exceptionally strong link between EM equity performance and flows, we think it plausible that funds are currently withdrawing double that from EM equity."  BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR Global Fees Should Be One Of The Top Factors In Picking A Manager (Pragmatic Capitalism) Cullen Roche at Pragmatic Capitalism thinks every investor should burn John Bogle's message on fees into their brains. Quoting from a letter from the CFA Institute and John Bogle: "If “active” and “passive” management styles are defined in sensible ways, it must be the case that (1) before costs, the return on the average actively managed dollar will equal the return on the average passively managed dollar and (2) after costs, the return on the average actively managed dollar will be less than the return on the average passively managed dollar. These assertions will hold for any time period. Moreover, they depend only on the laws of addition, subtraction, multiplication and division. Nothing else is required. . . ." FREE AppDownload
APThe administration of Gov. Chris Christie released a statement late Friday evening responding to claims by former Port Authority official and Christie ally David Wildstein. A lawyer for Wildstein said Friday that there was evidence the Governor knew about the closure of lanes onto the George Washington Bridge from Fort Lee, N.J., as they were happening in September. Here is the Christie administration's response, in full: "Mr. Wildstein's lawyer confirms what the Governor has said all along — he had absolutely no prior knowledge of the lane closures before they happened and whatever Mr. Wildstein's motivations were for closing them to begin with. As the Governor said in a December 13th press conference, he only first learned lanes were closed when it was reported by the press and as he said in his January 9th press conference, had no indication that this was anything other than a traffic study until he read otherwise the morning of January 8th. The Governor denies Mr. Wildstein's lawyer's other assertions." Wildstein's lawyer, Alan Zegas, released a letter on Friday in which he said: "Evidence exists as well tying Mr. Christie to having knowledge of the lane closures, during the period when the lanes were closed, contrary to what the governor stated publicly in a two-hour press conference." "Mr. Wildstein contests the accuracy of various statements that the Governor made about him and he can prove the inaccuracy of some," Zegas wrote. Wildstein was one of the officials who participated in the order to close the lanes. Messages from Wildstein were among those included in newly released documents earlier this month as part of state lawmakers' investigation into the closure of lanes onto the George Washington Bridge from Fort Lee last September. Christie's opponents have accused his administration of closing the lanes out of political retribution for Fort Lee Mayor Mark Sokolich (D) refusing to endorse him for re-election. Bridget Anne Kelly, Christie's former deputy chief of staff, sent an Aug. 13 email to Wildstein that read: "Time for some traffic problems in Fort Lee." "Got it," he replied. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVToday was Bloomberg TV anchor Deirdre Bolton's last day at Bloomberg, Business Insider has learned. She's headed to Fox Business Network, according a source who will remain anonymous. When reached by the telephone on Friday afternoon, Bolton would not comment. We put in a request for comment from Bloomberg's PR and will update when we hear back.  Bolton is definitely a big get for Fox Business. She's been one of the big stars at Bloomberg TV. CNBC's star anchor Maria Bartiromo also recently left for to join Fox Business. Sara Eisen, Dominic Chu, Josh Lipton and Sheila Dharmarajan have all left Bloomberg TV for CNBC in the last year and a half.  Bolton also Tweeted this photo earlier with anchor Scarlet Fu. It appears to be some sort of farewell.   #newsroom grateful @scarfu pic.twitter.com/455aM926cV The queen of alternatives, @DeirdreBolton. A toast and bittersweet farewell: pic.twitter.com/cp432wrbY5 FREE AppDownload
YouTubeThe Securities and Exchange Commission has charged a pair Florida State University professors with carrying out an "abusive" naked short selling scheme, according to a release and an SEC order. Gonul Colak, an assistant finance professor, and Milen Kostov, who works in the college of engineering at FSU, are accused in making more than $400,000 in ill-gotten gains from abusive short selling. Here's the key part from the SEC's order:  From at least July 2010 through February 2012, Respondents engaged in a complex options trading strategy, which they hedged by establishing short positions. Respondents’ accounts were at brokerage firms that prohibited short selling in certain hard to borrow securities, and thus, the brokerage firms required Respondents to close any short position resulting from options activity and to deliver securities within the standard three-day settlement period. Rather than deliver the securities, Respondents executed sham transactions to create the illusion that they had delivered when in fact they maintained these uncovered “naked” short positions. Through this scheme, Colak and Kostov engaged in manipulative and deceptive conduct in violation of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 10b-5 and 10b-21 there under. The pair of professors have agreed to settle with the SEC for a total of $670,000.   Here's the release:  The Securities and Exchange Commission today charged a pair of college professors in Tallahassee, Fla., with perpetrating a complex naked short selling scheme for more than $400,000 in illicit profits.  Abusive naked short selling occurs when shares are sold without having the shares to deliver, and then intentionally failing to deliver the securities within the standard three-day settlement period.  An SEC investigation found that Gonul Colak and Milen Kostov repeatedly engaged in a series of sham transactions designed to perpetuate a naked short position as part of an elaborate options trading strategy.  Colak and Kostov were required to deliver the securities underlying their short positions within the standard three days.  Instead, their sham reset transactions created the illusion that they had delivered the underlying securities when in fact they had taken no steps to do so.  They maintained the uncovered naked short positions and profited. Colak and Kostov agreed to settle the SEC’s charges by paying more than $670,000.  Colak and Kostov used multiple brokerage accounts to disguise the spurious nature of the sham transactions, moving a short position from one brokerage firm to another every few days in order to spread the failures to deliver across multiple firms in an effort to avoid detection.  SEC investigators uncovered the complicated scheme while looking into unusual trading in one of the companies whose options were being traded by Colak and Kostov.  An SEC examiner separately noted Kostov’s large volume options trading in a different company.  By cross referencing their findings and crunching blue sheet data, it became clear that Colak and Kostov were likely trading with one another.  SEC investigators pieced together the complex trading strategy – which involved literally thousands of trades – by tracing one of the trading sequences from start to finish. “Colak and Kostov engaged in trickery and deceit to avoid their delivery obligations and conceal their short selling scheme,” said Daniel M. Hawke, chief of the SEC Enforcement Division’s Market Abuse Unit.  “No matter how complex the trading scheme, we are committed to exposing and halting abusive naked short selling and holding wrongdoers like Colak and Kostov accountable for their misconduct.”  According to the SEC’s order instituting settled administrative proceedings, Colak and Kostov set their scheme in motion in early 2010 and went on to sell more than $800 million worth of call options in more than 20 companies.  Their trading strategy involved purchasing and writing two pairs of options for the same underlying stock, and targeting options in hard-to-borrow securities in which the price of the put options was higher than the price of the call options.  Colak and Kostov profited by avoiding the cost of instituting and maintaining the short positions caused by their paired options trading.   The SEC’s order finds that Colak and Kostov violated Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Rules 10b-5 and 10b-21 thereunder.  Colak agreed to pay $285,600 in disgorgement, $21,957 in prejudgment interest, and a $150,000 penalty.  Kostov agreed to pay $134,400 in disgorgement, $10,340 in prejudgment interest, and a penalty of $70,000.  Without admitting or denying the findings, Colak and Kostov agreed to cease and desist from committing or causing such violations. The SEC’s investigation was conducted by Jason Breeding and Diana Tani of the Market Abuse Unit in the Los Angeles Regional Office with assistance from the unit’s securities operations specialist Patrick McCluskey.  The investigation was supervised by Daniel M. Hawke and Joseph G. Sansone.  The SEC appreciates the assistance of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike Cassese Donald Trump all but declared victory today in the case of his eponymous school, but the New York Attorney General's office says Trump University still defrauded students looking to learn real estate tips from the billionaire. The decision from New York State Supreme Court Justice Cynthia Kern "has delivered a devastating blow" to Attorney General Eric Scneiderman's "well publicized" fight, according to Trump's lawyer Alan Garten. Schneiderman's office disagrees. The AG claims that Trump's students, some paying upwards of $30,000, were swindled by false promises. They thought they would at least get to meet Trump. Instead, they reportedly only got a picture with a cardboard cutout. But according Garten, Trump's attorney, the judge's ruling today makes it so that 98% of the students are ineligible from pursuing the case. The judge's ruling will require each student to come to New York to testify "why they are seeking a refund when 98% of all students previously filled out written report cards giving the school high marks and stating that they were completely satisfied with the program," according to Garten. "I think it validates everything we've been saying from day one," Garten told Business Insider. "That it's a waste of taxpayer money, completely politically motivated, an attempt to generate press." That may prove premature if the AG's office has anything to say about it. The judge ruled that fraud claims are subject to a six-year statute of limitations and that "petitioner's claims for fraud … are timely and remain as claims in this proceeding." "Today’s decision affirms the propriety of our fraud case against Donald Trump and his sham university," spokesperson Damien LaVera said in an email to BI. "The judge determined that our office will have the opportunity to hold Mr. Trump accountable for all of the actions outlined in our complaint." "Mr. Trump used his celebrity status and personally appeared in commercials making false promises to convince people to spend tens of thousands of dollars they couldn't afford for lessons they never got," LaVera said. "Attorney General Schneiderman looks forward to making sure he is held accountable." For his part, Trump is already doing a victory dance: Lightweight @AGSchneiderman just got his ass kicked by Trump! To Jamie Dimon—I love kicking lightweight @AGSchneiderman’s ass. Stop settling and fight! FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jacky NaegelenFrench cyclist Robert Marchand (C), aged 102, reacts with Gerard Mistler (L), President of the Ardechoise Cycling Club, after he covered 26.98 kms in one hour at the indoor Velodrome National in Montigny-les-Bretonneux, southwest of Paris January 31, 2014. Marchand set a new record in the Masters + 100 category established by the International Cycling Union (UCI). Stocks fell hard Friday, completing a month that saw the Dow decline more than 4%. Here's the scoreboard: S&amp;P500: 1,782.53 -11.66, -0.65%Dow: 15,698.52 -150.09, -0.95% NASDAQ: 4,103.88, -19.25 -0.47% And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
AP A lawyer for David Wildstein, the Former Port Authority Director of Interstate Capital Projects and an ally of New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, said Friday that there was evidence the Governor knew about the closure of lanes onto the George Washington Bridge from Fort Lee, N.J., as they were happening in September. Wildstein's lawyer, Alan Zegas, released a letter to The New York Times (and, subsequently, other outlets) in which he said: "Evidence exists as well tying Mr. Christie to having knowledge of the lane closures, during the period when the lanes were closed, contrary to what the governor stated publicly in a two-hour press conference." "Mr. Wildstein contests the accuracy of various statements that the Governor made about him and he can prove the inaccuracy of some," Zegas wrote. Wildstein was one of the officials who participated in the order to close the lanes. Messages from Wildstein were among those included in newly released documents earlier this month as part of state lawmakers' investigation into the closure of lanes onto the George Washington Bridge from Fort Lee last September. Christie's opponents have accused his administration of closing the lanes out of political retribution for Fort Lee Mayor Mark Sokolich (D) refusing to endorse him for re-election. In a statement late Friday evening, the Christie administration denied Wildstein's claims. "Mr. Wildstein's lawyer confirms what the Governor has said all along — he had absolutely no prior knowledge of the lane closures before they happened and whatever Mr. Wildstein's motivations were for closing them to begin with," Christie's office said in the statement.  "As the Governor said in a December 13th press conference, he only first learned lanes were closed when it was reported by the press and as he said in his January 9th press conference, had no indication that this was anything other than a traffic study until he read otherwise the morning of January 8th. The Governor denies Mr. Wildstein's lawyer's other assertions." Bridget Anne Kelly, Christie's former deputy chief of staff, sent an Aug. 13 email to Wildstein that read: "Time for some traffic problems in Fort Lee." "Got it," he replied. Wildstein also mocked the concerns about school buses getting stuck in the gridlock that ensued from the lane closures. "They are the children of Buono voters," he texted to Kelly, a reference to Barbara Buono, Christie's Democratic opponent in last year's gubernatorial election. Wildstein also called Fort Lee Mayor Mark Sokolich a "little Serbian." In a press conference the day after the release of the documents, Christie apologized, saying he had been "humiliated" by some members of his staff. "I had no knowledge or involvement in this issue, in its planning or execution," Christie said. He said that until the release of the documents, he was still convinced that the lane closures were part of a traffic study.  Earlier this month, Wildstein pleaded the Fifth Amendment in testimony before the New Jersey Assembly Transportation Committee on his role in the scandal. The panel of New Jersey lawmakers subsequently voted to hold Wildstein in contempt for refusing to answer questions. A spokesman for Christie didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. Here's the full letter from Wildstein's lawyer:   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Marcos BrindicciTraders work on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange floor during mid-afternoon trading, May 7, 2004.WHEN the euro crisis was at its height it became commonplace for struggling European economies to insist that they were not outliers like Greece. Whatever their woes, they declared, Greece’s were in a class of their own. In Latin America, by contrast, the unwanted title of outlier has two contenders: Argentina and Venezuela. Both have been living high on the hog for years, blithely dishing out the proceeds of an unrepeatable commodities boom (oil in Venezuela; soya in Argentina). Both have been using a mix of central-bank interventions and administrative controls to keep overvalued exchange rates from falling and inflation from rising. Both now face a come-uppance. High inflation is a shared problem. Argentina’s rate, propelled higher by loose monetary and fiscal policies, is unofficially put at 28%. Argentina’s official exchange rate is overvalued as a result, fetching 70% more dollars per peso than the informal "blue" rate in mid-January. Venezuela’s prices are rising faster still. Last year, during an awkward political transition after the death of Hugo Chávez to the presidency of Nicolás Maduro (pictured with Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, the Argentine president), the Central Bank stepped up money-printing to finance public spending, pushing inflation to 56.2%. A dollar fetches 75-80 bolívares on the black market, up to seven times the official rate. Both countries have dwindling arsenals with which to defend their overvalued currencies. Venezuela’s reserves of gold and foreign currency, which stood at nearly $30 billion at the end of 2012, were down to just over $21 billion by last week. Only about $2 billion of that is in liquid assets. Ecoanalítica, a research firm, estimates that the government can also dip into around $13 billion of opaque, off-budget funds. Argentina’s reserves have also been tumbling (see chart). The EconomistSomething had to give, and late last month it did. Argentina first allowed the peso to plunge, by more than 15% in the week starting January 20th, and then announced a relaxation of the government’s ban on buying foreign currency for saving purposes. Argentines making over 7,200 pesos ($900) monthly are now able to change 20% of their salary into dollars at the official exchange rate so long as they get approval from AFIP, Argentina’s tax agency. The dollars are transferred to their bank accounts, not released in cash, and hit by a 20% fee if withdrawn before a year. If that sounds complicated, it is still cheaper than buying dollars in the illegal market. The government’s objective seems to be to close the gap between the official and blue exchange rates, alleviating the need to spend more of those precious reserves to prop up the official rate. Although the gap has closed a little, fear that devaluation will lead only to yet higher inflation explains continued high demand for dollars, even at the less favourable exchange rate. So too does the fact that only a third of Argentine workers meet the declared-income threshold for buying dollars, according to analysis by IARAF, a think-tank. Guido Sandleris of the University Torcuato di Tella says the plan is doomed to failure unless the government becomes more open about its intentions and adopts a genuinely restrictive set of policies to battle inflation. Although the Central Bank this week raised one of its interest rates by a full six percentage points, rates remain below inflation, giving Argentines little reason to hold pesos. On the fiscal front the government needs to reduce subsidies and remain unyielding in the face of workers’ demands for pay rises. Miguel Kiguel of EconViews, a consultancy, says wage increases to be negotiated in March and April must remain under 30% if they are to serve as an anti-inflationary anchor. That will be hard given lavish pay awards handed out to striking policemen last year. Whether the government is willing to put prudence before politics is not clear. On the day that her government let the peso’s slide turn into a slump, Ms Fernández announced a plan to fund education for unemployed 18- to 24-year-olds that could cost 11 billion pesos. Her only reference to the currency’s fall was a tweet accusing banks of helping favoured investors to speculate on the peso. There are some people, she wrote, who "want to make us eat soup again, but this time with a fork." At least Argentina’s partial liberalisation of currency controls is a halting step towards normality. Venezuela, where the situation is even more perilous, is heading in the other direction. On January 22nd the government unveiled new rules under which a higher rate for non-essential transactions is set weekly (it stood at 11.36 bolívares to the dollar this week). The old rate of 6.3 still applies for government imports and basic items such as food and medicine, so reserves will keep falling as the government defends the currency. Venezuela is running out of dollars to pay its bills. Although payments to its financial creditors of around $5 billion this year do not appear to be at risk, the country’s arrears on non-financial debt are put at over ten times that sum. These include more than $3 billion owed to foreign airlines for tickets sold in bolívares, and around $9 billion in private-sector imports that have not been paid for because of the dollar shortage. "Under the current economic model, and with this economic policy," says Asdrúbal Oliveros of Ecoanalítica, "this [debt] looks unpayable." The effects are already apparent. Foreign airlines have placed tight restrictions on ticket sales; some have suspended them altogether. Many drugs and spare parts for medical equipment are unavailable. Car parts, including batteries, are increasingly hard to find; newspapers are closing for lack of paper. The country’s largest private firm, Empresas Polar, which makes many basic foodstuffs, is struggling to make some products. In a statement Polar said the government owed it $463m and that production was "at risk" because foreign suppliers of raw materials and packaging were threatening to halt shipments. The government blames the crisis on private businesses and "irresponsible" use of hard currency by ordinary Venezuelans. It has ordered drastic cuts in dollar allowances for travellers, especially to popular destinations like Miami. Remittances to relatives abroad have also been slashed. In a bid to curb runaway inflation, it has introduced a new law restricting companies’ profits to 30% of costs. Long jail sentences await transgressors. Without a big injection of dollars from the state oil company, Petróleos de Venezuela, which brings in 96% of foreign earnings, the crunch will continue. Better terms for foreign investors in the oil industry would bring in much-needed cash and boost stagnant production. But unless the government abandons its antipathy to private capital, the prospect of new investment is dim. Shortages of goods are only likely to worsen. If Argentina is an outlier, Venezuela risks straying into a different category entirely. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
The final leg of the Keystone XL Pipeline just took one step closer to being approved, as the State Department concluded its existence would not dramatically impact development of Canada's tar sands. The agency determined that wheter it's approved or not, the project is "unlikely to significantly affect the rate of extraction in oil sands areas." "Rail will likely be able to accommodate new production if new pipelines are delayed or not constructed," it added. The Keystone XL Pipeline, maintained by Calgary-based Transcanada, already largely exists — its Texas leg began taking oil from Oklahoma a few days ago. But a section running from Hardisty Alberta to Steele City, Nebraska requires approval from the Obama administration because it crosses a border. But the leg has been in regulatory limbo since 2010 as concerns from environmentalists about its potential for exacerbating climate change has caused the administration to keep a permit on ice.     Here's the key chart from the report showing  how many more greenhouse gases would be emitted if the pipeline got developed, against a baseline estimate if the project were scuttled. Basically, it's the volume of the emissions if the pipeline carried its projected 830,000 barrels per day versus if those same 830,000 barrels somehow never got developed. In the grand scheme of things, it's not much. And again, State says those barrels are probably going to be produced anyway. State Department The project now awaits a "national security determination" from the Obama administration. There is no set date for that determination to be made. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Marcos BrindicciTraders work on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange floor during mid-afternoon trading, May 7, 2004.WHEN the euro crisis was at its height it became commonplace for struggling European economies to insist that they were not outliers like Greece. Whatever their woes, they declared, Greece’s were in a class of their own. In Latin America, by contrast, the unwanted title of outlier has two contenders: Argentina and Venezuela. Both have been living high on the hog for years, blithely dishing out the proceeds of an unrepeatable commodities boom (oil in Venezuela; soya in Argentina). Both have been using a mix of central-bank interventions and administrative controls to keep overvalued exchange rates from falling and inflation from rising. Both now face a come-uppance. High inflation is a shared problem. Argentina’s rate, propelled higher by loose monetary and fiscal policies, is unofficially put at 28%. Argentina’s official exchange rate is overvalued as a result, fetching 70% more dollars per peso than the informal "blue" rate in mid-January. Venezuela’s prices are rising faster still. Last year, during an awkward political transition after the death of Hugo Chávez to the presidency of Nicolás Maduro (pictured with Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, the Argentine president), the Central Bank stepped up money-printing to finance public spending, pushing inflation to 56.2%. A dollar fetches 75-80 bolívares on the black market, up to seven times the official rate. Both countries have dwindling arsenals with which to defend their overvalued currencies. Venezuela’s reserves of gold and foreign currency, which stood at nearly $30 billion at the end of 2012, were down to just over $21 billion by last week. Only about $2 billion of that is in liquid assets. Ecoanalítica, a research firm, estimates that the government can also dip into around $13 billion of opaque, off-budget funds. Argentina’s reserves have also been tumbling (see chart). The EconomistSomething had to give, and late last month it did. Argentina first allowed the peso to plunge, by more than 15% in the week starting January 20th, and then announced a relaxation of the government’s ban on buying foreign currency for saving purposes. Argentines making over 7,200 pesos ($900) monthly are now able to change 20% of their salary into dollars at the official exchange rate so long as they get approval from AFIP, Argentina’s tax agency. The dollars are transferred to their bank accounts, not released in cash, and hit by a 20% fee if withdrawn before a year. If that sounds complicated, it is still cheaper than buying dollars in the illegal market. The government’s objective seems to be to close the gap between the official and blue exchange rates, alleviating the need to spend more of those precious reserves to prop up the official rate. Although the gap has closed a little, fear that devaluation will lead only to yet higher inflation explains continued high demand for dollars, even at the less favourable exchange rate. So too does the fact that only a third of Argentine workers meet the declared-income threshold for buying dollars, according to analysis by IARAF, a think-tank. Guido Sandleris of the University Torcuato di Tella says the plan is doomed to failure unless the government becomes more open about its intentions and adopts a genuinely restrictive set of policies to battle inflation. Although the Central Bank this week raised one of its interest rates by a full six percentage points, rates remain below inflation, giving Argentines little reason to hold pesos. On the fiscal front the government needs to reduce subsidies and remain unyielding in the face of workers’ demands for pay rises. Miguel Kiguel of EconViews, a consultancy, says wage increases to be negotiated in March and April must remain under 30% if they are to serve as an anti-inflationary anchor. That will be hard given lavish pay awards handed out to striking policemen last year. Whether the government is willing to put prudence before politics is not clear. On the day that her government let the peso’s slide turn into a slump, Ms Fernández announced a plan to fund education for unemployed 18- to 24-year-olds that could cost 11 billion pesos. Her only reference to the currency’s fall was a tweet accusing banks of helping favoured investors to speculate on the peso. There are some people, she wrote, who "want to make us eat soup again, but this time with a fork." At least Argentina’s partial liberalisation of currency controls is a halting step towards normality. Venezuela, where the situation is even more perilous, is heading in the other direction. On January 22nd the government unveiled new rules under which a higher rate for non-essential transactions is set weekly (it stood at 11.36 bolívares to the dollar this week). The old rate of 6.3 still applies for government imports and basic items such as food and medicine, so reserves will keep falling as the government defends the currency. Venezuela is running out of dollars to pay its bills. Although payments to its financial creditors of around $5 billion this year do not appear to be at risk, the country’s arrears on non-financial debt are put at over ten times that sum. These include more than $3 billion owed to foreign airlines for tickets sold in bolívares, and around $9 billion in private-sector imports that have not been paid for because of the dollar shortage. "Under the current economic model, and with this economic policy," says Asdrúbal Oliveros of Ecoanalítica, "this [debt] looks unpayable." The effects are already apparent. Foreign airlines have placed tight restrictions on ticket sales; some have suspended them altogether. Many drugs and spare parts for medical equipment are unavailable. Car parts, including batteries, are increasingly hard to find; newspapers are closing for lack of paper. The country’s largest private firm, Empresas Polar, which makes many basic foodstuffs, is struggling to make some products. In a statement Polar said the government owed it $463m and that production was "at risk" because foreign suppliers of raw materials and packaging were threatening to halt shipments. The government blames the crisis on private businesses and "irresponsible" use of hard currency by ordinary Venezuelans. It has ordered drastic cuts in dollar allowances for travellers, especially to popular destinations like Miami. Remittances to relatives abroad have also been slashed. In a bid to curb runaway inflation, it has introduced a new law restricting companies’ profits to 30% of costs. Long jail sentences await transgressors. Without a big injection of dollars from the state oil company, Petróleos de Venezuela, which brings in 96% of foreign earnings, the crunch will continue. Better terms for foreign investors in the oil industry would bring in much-needed cash and boost stagnant production. But unless the government abandons its antipathy to private capital, the prospect of new investment is dim. Shortages of goods are only likely to worsen. If Argentina is an outlier, Venezuela risks straying into a different category entirely. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
The tone was firmly "risk off" this morning as much of the price action that has dominated trading in the last week continued, but U.S. stocks are rallying back this afternoon. The S&amp;P 500 is now down only 0.1%. Despite the small rally, U.S. Treasuries are holding on to gains as well. The charts below show moves in various markets. Across the top from left to right are the S&amp;P 500 index, the dollar-yen exchange rate, and the euro-dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, 10-year U.S. Treasury futures, and the dollar-lira exchange rate. Major economic data releases this morning included unemployment out of the eurozone, which remained unchanged at 12.0%, and eurozone consumer price inflation, which came in at 0.7% year over year in December, below consensus expectations for a 0.9% rise. The big surprise, however, was a 2.5% drop in German retail sales from the previous month in December, which is being cited as one driver of bearish sentiment this morning. In the United States, personal incomes were flat in December (below estimates calling for a 0.2% rise) while consumer spending growth slowed to 0.4% from 0.5% (besting estimates calling for a slowdown to 0.2%). The year-over-year change in the price index of personal consumption expenditures — the Fed's preferred measure of inflation — rose to 1.2%, in line with estimates. Chicago PMI unexpectedly rose to 59.6 from 59.1, and the final results of the University of Michigan's consumer confidence survey were better than expected, revealing a smaller drop in confidence in January than the preliminary estimate published by the University of Michigan earlier this month. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
Peter TyeView of Lake Tahoe from Ms. Mansouri's Fleur du Lac condo.A luxurious waterfront home, made famous as the setting for “The Godfather: Part II” where Fredo Corleone met his watery demise, was recently named The Wall Street Journal's 2013 House of the Year. With 51 homes in the running, the "finest condominium" — as the listing would have it — won with nearly a million reader votes. The home is part of a 15-acre and 22-unit development called Fleur du Lac Estates and it is located on the western shores of Lake Tahoe. Owner Zari Mansouri, CEO of Laboratory Skin Care, is selling the condo for $6.499 million with Bill Murphy and Jeff Hamilton of Sierra Sotheby's International Realty. 
Outgoing Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke is a huge Washington Nationals fan. So yesterday at his going away shindig with staff, the Fed passed around Ben Bernanke baseball cards, FRB economist Claudia Sahm tweeted today. Here's the card: Bernanke (special edition) baseball card pic.twitter.com/klAxmzMAkF pretty impressive stats on the back of that card ... pic.twitter.com/0ZXLtL9HOa FREE AppDownload
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderSome of Business Insider's awesome editorial team.A couple of years ago, I revealed some internal information about Business Insider. Then, last year, I did it again. Both times, I said that, if nothing horrible happened, I might continue to do it. Well, nothing horrible happened! (At least nothing I'm aware of.) Earlier this month, the folks at DLD were kind enough to ask me to give a presentation on digital storytelling. In my deck, I included some secret BI information. On the theory that you, our readers, might also be interested, I've published the presentation below. There are a lot of slides, but few words, so it should be an easy flip-through. Here are some highlights: Thank you again for reading Business Insider and for helping to make our success possible. We listen closely to what you tell us, and we will keep striving to make the site better every day.
Tal Alexander/FacebookTal and Oren Alexander of Douglas Elliman's The Alexander GroupIn what could be a real estate record for New York City, the nation of Qatar is in contract to buy an Upper East Side townhouse for $100 million, The New York Post reported earlier this week. If the sale is completed in April, as expected, the 20,500-square-foot mansion, currently an art gallery, will become the priciest New York City commercial townhouse ever sold, according to The Real Deal. Qatar is expected to turn the townhouse, known as the Wildenstein Building, into a consulate. Incredibly, the real estate agents who represented Qatar in the deal were not wizened New York brokers, but a pair of 20-something brothers who have made a name for themselves selling ultra-luxury homes from the Hamptons to Israel. The brothers, Oren and Tal Alexander of Douglas Elliman's Alexander Team, are 26 and 27, respectively. The brothers were also behind the sale of Miami's most expensive mansion, and the team is currently marketing a $95 million apartment at New York's prestigious Sherry Netherland building. In an email to Business Insider, Tal called the deal a "milestone transaction for New York City," adding "[we] were glad we were able to open the door for the next 9-figure sale in Manhattan."  Even for brothers who are used to making headlines (The Real Deal dubbed Oren "the party boy" at age 23, and The New York Post has called him "the ultimate young gun") the Qatar deal is a major feather in their cap. Oren posted about the news on his Facebook page: Business Insider spoke to Oren last year, after he closed the $47 million deal in Miami. Despite his young age, he said he meets many of his wealthy clients — whom he likes to call "friends" — by living like they do. That means he spends New Year's in St. Barts, goes to the clubs they frequent, and dresses like them, too. Alexander decided early on to focus on the luxury market and not rentals, a risky move that ultimately paid off. "I knew who I wanted to be and to get there I had to be selling big product," he told Business Insider. "It's the only way to get recognition. Otherwise, you're just another real estate broker. I didn't want to be another rental broker. It is almost a negative thing to be a broker, almost like being a club promoter. There are so many of them and it's hard to differentiate yourself. I wanted to bring a good reputation to the business and I felt I could only do that on the high end." The Wildenstein family, prominent New York art dealers, were represented by the Corcoran Group’s Carrie Chiang in the deal.  FREE AppDownload
Instagram esquarehospitalityBLT Prime chef Jonathan MailloThis weekend, out-of-towners will pour into New York City for the Super Bowl, and they'll all be looking to eat a celebratory meal. Or a meal that will make them feel better after a crushing loss. Whatever the situation, this is New York, and that meal should be steak. Moreover, if you ask any Wall Streeter, they'll likely suggest the steakhouses on this list. Here's why: New York City has an amazing tradition of steak and chophouses — some steakhouses on this list, like Keen's, Delmonico's, and Old Homestead, date back to the 1800s. Wall Street is even older than that, and with its client dinners and big money celebrations, is steeped in NYC steak culture. Bankers take lunch meetings at Bobby Van's, and Del Frisco's is basically a big banker hang out spot managed by former bond trader, Scott Gould. That's why Business Insider polled its Wall Street readers to get their official take on the best steak in town and compiled the results in this handy list. Study it, you'll need it. Oh, and as a sidenote, shouts to Minetta Tavern — not a steakhouse, but they serve an amazing steak. FREE AppDownload
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR Global Not surprisingly, as emerging markets came under serious stress in the past week, investors pulled billions of dollars out of the asset class, marking the biggest weekly outflow since August 2011. According to the latest EPFR data, EM equity funds got hit with $6.3 billion of redemptions, and EM debt funds suffered $2.7 billion of withdrawals. "EM outflows have only just started," says Alain Bokobza, head of strategy at Société Générale. EPFR Global, Datastream, SG Cross Asset Research/Global Asset AllocationCumulative inflows into EM equities funds and ETFs; monthly data since 2007. EM market capitalisation relative to U.S."Given the exceptionally strong link between EM equity performance and flows, we think it plausible that funds are currently withdrawing double that from EM equity." Even though the term "emerging markets" encompasses a wide range of investment destinations, investors aren't being very discerning at the moment. "Mutual fund and ETF investors in EMs both favour global EM funds," says Bokobza. "Regional or country specialisation is less common (less than 47% of global EM assets). The implication is that all EM markets face outflows currently, with little discrimination between the countries that are most exposed and those which are more defensive." While Bokobza sees "no early end to EM asset de-rating," others are taking a more sanguine tack following the announcement of central bank rate hikes in key emerging markets like India, Turkey, and South Africa this week. "Much of the media (and not only on the financial pages) seems to be vying to produce the most bearish story on emerging markets," says Bartosz Pawlowski, global head of EM strategy at BNP Paribas. "We have actually moved Turkey from biggest underweight in our portfolio to a slight overweight (keeping other shorts like South Africa or Russia at the same time)." FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsAs home prices ripped higher in 2013, we saw a rise in home flipping — when a home is purchased and sold within six months. Home flipping was up 16% on the year in 2013, according to RealtyTrac's latest report. The average gross profit for a flip — the difference between the flipped price and the purchase price — was $58,081 in 2013.In the fourth quarter the gross profit on flips was $62,761. We rounded up the 14 cities where home flippers made the highest gross profit (in percent) in the fourth quarter. Note: RealtyTrac looked at metro areas with more than 10 flips in the fourth quarter. FREE AppDownload
Financial blogger John Carney is headed to the Wall Street Journal to write for "Heard On The Street." Excited to welcome @carney to @WSJheard where he will be covering all things Wall Street! He previously worked for Business Insider and Dealbreaker. Before pursuing a journalism career, Carney practiced law as a corporate attorney.  He holds a law degree from UPenn.    Here's the internal staff hire letter [via Chris Roush at TalkingBizNews]:  We are pleased to announce thatJohn Carney is joining Heard on the Street. John is well-known both on Wall Street and in the financial media, with a presence spanning TV, print, and online. He joins us from CNBC, where he founded and ran the NetNet blog and made frequent appearances in front of the cameras opining on the highs and lows of finance. John began his career in journalism at DealBreaker, the irreverent blog covering the culture and personalities of Wall Street. There during the depths of the financial crisis, he served as editor-in-chief of the site. He went from there to be managing editor of Clusterstock, part of Business Insider. In addition, John has over the years written for our own Wall Street Journal, the New York Times, Fortune, and New York magazine, among others. In a previous life, John practiced corporate law at firms including Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &amp; Flom and Latham &amp; Watkins. He received his law degree from the University of Pennsylvania and graduated Summa Cum Laude from the State University of New York at Binghamton. True to his roots, John will cover all things Wall Street for the Heard. You can join one of his more-than 41,000 twitter followers at this handle: @carney. Based in New York, he will report to Liam Denning andDavid Reilly.   FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe milk man is kicking the crap out of the iron man — economically speaking. Coined by Citi economists Paul Brennan and Josh Williamson, the milkman-iron man battle represents the economic struggle between New Zealand and Australia. New Zealand, the milkman, is poised for monster growth this year. Its exports to China spiked 45% in 2013 (even after a health scare). The iron man Australia, on the other hand, has struggled as China tempers its demand for Australian commodities. Interestingly, as China attempts to pump the breaks on its economy, NZDAUD (the New Zealand Dollar vs. the Australian Dollar) has become a pretty clear proxy for observing China's transition from mega investment to mega consumption. "Both Australia and NZ are primarily commodity exporters. But Australia tends to export hard commodities, for instance iron ore, coal and natural gas, while NZ tends to export milk products, meat and wood/timber products," SocGen's Alvin Tan told Business Insider. "Since mid-2011, the prices of Australia’s exports have declined, while NZ’s have done better. Basically Australia’s commodity exports are more dependent on the Chinese business and industrial cycle, while NZ’s exports are less so." As Bloomberg's Matthew Klein noted on Twitter, the Kiwi has rallied 22% against the Aussie dollar since summer 2012. But China isn't the only factor here. Marc Chandler, global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman, said that the two nation's central banks are also driving the Kiwi's rally. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand is "likely to hike rates 1-2 times in the coming months" starting in March, while Australia may continue cutting "even if not until Q2," Chandler said. "The rate differentials moved sharply in NZD’s favor against AUD," Tan said as well. In addition, "The NZ economy has been benefitting from the post-Canterbury earthquake construction and investment boom, while Australia’s economy faces the end of a commodities-related investment boom," Tan said. Take a look at the NZDAUD over the past two years: Steven Perlberg / Business Insider data via Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
In preparation for the start of Chinese New Year this Friday, retailers and brands across the world are gearing up for the gifting rush with a massive number of special year of the horse products. As part of our ongoing coverage of luxury Lunar New Year marketing, today we’re featuring some of the top special-edition fashion items launched by Western luxury brands. These bags, accessories, and apparel accompany everything from jewelry to watches and spirits to cars. Check the list below for items by Longchamp, DVF, Ferragamo, and more, and take a look at our previous coverage of special-edition horse fashion by DKNY, Gucci, and Carolina Herrera. Longchamp The high-end French tote designer needed to look no further than its own logo when creating its special Lunar New Year bag, which come in auspicious red or black. This bag is being especially promoted by Bloomingdale’s, which is featuring it prominently for its year of the horse promotions. Longchamp via Jing Daily Diane von Furstenberg DVF’s signature wrap dress received the zodiac treatment this year with a special horse pattern. The frock comes in black or red, and can be paired with the label’s special-edition horse clutch designed especially for the holiday. Diane von Furstenberg via Jing Daily Diane von Furstenberg via Jing Daily Ralph Lauren With an entire brand identity centered around equestrian sports, Ralph Lauren has perhaps the most extensive collection of special-edition year of the horse products for both men and women. In addition to its previously featured jewelry, the label is selling everything from a $2,500 bag to scarves, ties, apparel, belts, and apparel. For menswear, one highlight is the brand’s limited-edition shirt with a “year of the horse” crest. Ralph Lauren via Jing DailyRalph Lauren via Jing Daily Ralph Lauren via Jing Daily Ferragamo The Italian luxury label hopes that a limited-edition bag available at Shin Kong Place mall in Beijing will boost mainland sales. In addition, Ferragamo is selling special-edition items globally, such as its special horse-patterned ties. Ferragamo via Jing Daily Ferragamo via Jing Daily Burberry With a horse in its logo and a strong dedication to the China market, the British luxury brand is another brand that has gone all out for the year of the horse with special-edition Lunar New Year leather goods, clothing, cufflinks, and more. The label has also created a special Chinese New Year ad, which is embedded below. Burberry via Jing DailyBurberry via Jing Daily  Ermenegildo Zegna Like Ralph Lauren and Ferragamo, Zegna plans to cash in on the year of the horse menswear market with a special-edition horse-patterned tie. Ermenegildo Zegna via Jing Daily FREE AppDownload
Nicholas EckhartThe Canton Centre Mall in Canton, Ohio is boarded up and vacant. All across America, once-vibrant shopping malls are boarded up and decaying. Traffic-driving anchors like Sears and JCPenney are shutting down stores, and mall owners are having a hard time finding retailers large enough to replace them. With a fresh wave of closures on the horizon, the problem is set to accelerate, according to retail and real estate analysts. About 15% of U.S. malls will fail or be converted into non-retail space within the next 10 years, according to Green Street Advisors, a real estate and REIT analytics firm. That's an increase from less than two years ago, when the firm predicted 10% of malls would fail or be converted. "The risk of failure for a mall increases dramatically once you see anchor closures," said Cedric Lachance, managing director of Green Street Advisors. "Their health is very important ... and most of them are highly likely to continue closing stores." Within 15 to 20 years, retail consultant Howard Davidowitz expects as many as half of America's shopping malls to fail. He predicts that only upscale shopping centers with anchors like Saks Fifth Avenue and Neiman Marcus will survive. "Middle-level stores in middle-level malls are going to be extinct because they don't make sense," said Davidowitz, chairman of Davidowitz &amp; Associates, Inc., a retail consulting and investment banking firm. "That's why we haven't built a major enclosed mall since 2006." This building once housed a Macy's, which closed in 2008 and has since remained untouched: Nicholas EckhartOf the roughly 1,000 malls in the U.S., about 400 cater to upper-income shoppers, he said. For those higher-end malls, business is improving, according to data from Green Street Advisors. It's the lower-end malls that are being hit by store closures. JCPenney, Macy's, and Sears have all recently announced fresh rounds of closures and layoffs. JCPenney is closing 33 stores, Macy's is closing five, and Sears is closing its flagship in Chicago — the latest of about 300 closures Sears has made since 2010. As those retailers vacate their hulking, multi-story spaces, mall owners are aiming to replace them with movie theaters, restaurants, and discount retailers like TJ Maxx, Ross Stores, and Marshalls, analysts said. But if a mall is hit by two or more anchor closures at once, it's harder to stay afloat. That's typically the beginning of a downward spiral leading to ultimate extinction, Lachance said. Most struggling malls don't go down without a long, drawn-out fight, however — the evidence of which exists in hundreds of communities across the country where vacant wings of various shopping centers are beginning to crumble and decay. States hit particularly badly include Texas, Pennsylvania, Ohio, New York, and Illinois, according to Deadmalls.com, which tracks mall closures. Here's the interior of Rolling Acres Mall in Akron, Ohio, which has been closed since 2008:  Nicholas Eckhart"Malls will go broke, will go dark, will get closed — and it will take eight years for something to be redeveloped," Davidowitz said. Don Wood, the CEO of Federal Reality Investment Trust, has said the process of knocking down or converting a mall could take as long as two decades. "It’s really going to be hard in the next 10 years to knock down that mall and rebuild it into something better because the economics just don’t work," Wood said at a conference in June 2012, according to The Wall Street Journal. A failing mall in a non-affluent market "most likely will just stay there and get worse and worse over the next 20 years." What will eventually replace these ghost malls are community colleges, business offices, and health care facilities, according to Green Street Advisors. Until then, many of these former shopping hubs will continue the gradual process of boarding up windows and turning out the lights, one store after another. FREE AppDownload
Going the way of scrunchies and jerry curls, credit default swaps (CDS) are falling out of fashion on Wall Street, reports Bloomberg's Mary Childs. Outstanding CDS has been cut in about half in the time from 2007  to June 2013. Part of the problem is that new post financial crisis regulation is making it too expensive for banks. Credit default swaps had a huge hand in financial crisis. Back in the 90s, they were invented at JP Morgan as a mechanism to insure loans. In a nutshell, the buyer of the CDS pays the seller installments with a guarantee that if the borrower of the loan defaults, the buyer is made whole. Of course, 5 years ago, a whole lot of people defaulted, so a whole lot of CDS had to be paid out, and that had a domino effect on our whole banking system. And that's another problem with CDS now. Since the Fed has kept rates so low, fewer people are defaulting, and that means fewer payouts. Since then, though, some really smart people have continued playing in this muck. Guys like Boaz Weinstein od Saba Capital Management and Andrew Fieldstein over at BlueMountain Capital Management made a killing betting against the London Whale (who traded CDS) and even before that, during the Euro debt crisis. But now those guys are changing their strategies — hiring equity traders and bringing down their CDS assets. Of course, Wall Street has never had a shortage of toys to play with, so don't lose too much sleep over this.   FREE AppDownload
House Republicans are rallying around a new plan on their approach to raising the debt ceiling, according to The Washington Post's Robert Costa — a one-year increase tied to a request on the Affordable Care Act:  House members tell me this is the GOP debt-limit plan: 1-year increase tied to "no bailout for insurance companies" under ACA That means House Republicans could demand a repeal of Obamacare's "risk corridors." Treasury Secretary Jack Lew has said that the debt ceiling will need to be raised by the end of February to avoid a potential default on the country's obligations. The "risk corridors" in question aim to make it easier for insurance companies to transition to the new health-care system, largely by making it less financially risky for them to sell new insurance plans on the exchanges established by the Affordable Care Act. Republicans have recently begun referring to them as a "bailout."  The risk corridors are a temporary program that expire in 2016. Until then, the risk corridors are set up so that the government would compensate insurance companies that have bigger costs than they expected while transitioning to the new system. The provision is designed to protect insurers that see an especially unhealthy pool of customers and end up with claims that are higher than expected. Democrats and President Barack Obama have remained firm on their position of not negotiating over raising the debt ceiling. Democrats believe that Republicans will eventually have to cave and pass a so-called "clean" debt-ceiling increase. "They may find on this one that the nearest exit may be behind them," House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) told Business Insider earlier this week. Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.), the chair of the Senate Budget Committee, accused Republicans of pushing the economy "toward another completely unnecessary crisis." "The more time Republicans spend dreaming up their latest debt limit wish list, the closer they are pushing workers and the economy toward another completely unnecessary crisis," Murray said. "The American people are sick and tired of Republicans playing games with our economic recovery and Democrats have made it clear that Republicans don’t get to demand a ransom simply for allowing Congress to do its job. Hopefully Republicans will stop worrying about keeping the Tea Party happy and will work with us to prevent a default the way they’ve done the last two times, but this time without the drama and needless uncertainty." FREE AppDownload
_rockinfree/flickrChipotle shares are up 13% this morning to $559 after the gourmet burrito emporium reporting strong revenues after the bell yesterday. Q4 receipts came in at $844.1 million versus $826.3 million. Earnings of $2.52 were in line with expectations. Comparable store sales were up 9.3%, beating expectations for 6.7%, and the firm revised its 2014 same-store-sales guidance slightly higher. As a result, Morgan Stanley's John Glass and Jake Bartlett raised their 2014 SSS growth target to 6.9% from 5.8%. "Consumers took a break from online shopping and stepped into the bitter cold to buy burritos en masse in 4Q, as CMG again showed is market dominance and, in our view, long runway of growth," they wrote. "Increased costs limit EPS upside (though pricing should help), but we expect CMG to hold its premium multiple."  Morgan Stanley has an "overweight" rating on the shares with a price target of $594. Here's the stock chart: Marketwatch FREE AppDownload
WikipediaThe Upper East Side's Wildenstein BuildingThe nation of Qatar is in contract to buy an Upper East Side townhouse for $100 million. Qatar intends to convert the townhouse into a consulate, as the New York Post initially reported. The 20,500-square-foot mansion, currently in use as an art gallery, will set a record for the priciest New York City commercial townhouse if it closes. The property is currently owned by prominent New York City art dealers the Wildenstein family, who were represented by the Corcoran Group’s Carrie Chiang in the deal. The property was never officially put on the market, but had unofficially been asking about $125 million, Chiang confirmed. The sale is slated to close in April. “I was approached by the buyer’s representatives who asked if I knew of a property that could meet the very specific needs of their client,” Chiang told The Real Deal via email. “I contacted my long-term clients, the Wildenstein family, to explore any possible interest in selling their mansion although the property was not on the market. I thought of that property because it was the perfect answer to the Qatari consulate requirements. After reviewing the buyer’s request, my client agreed to the sale and the deal was consummated very quickly.” The record for the most-expensive residential townhouse sale remains with the Harkness Mansion at 4 East 75th Street, which private equity mogul J. Christopher Flowers purchased in 2006 for $53 million. Flowers later sold the property to art mogul Larry Gagosian for $36.5  million. In a statement to The Real Deal, Corcoran President and CEO Pamela Liebman credited Chiang’s “expertise and experience” for her role in the successful deal. “Even though Carrie maintains a very low profile, everyone in the industry - and around the world – knows who to call when a client is looking for the best,” Liebman said via email. Oren and Tal Alexander of Douglas Elliman’s Alexander team represented the buyer in the deal. “Besides the location and width, it’s a turn-key property, which is what I think struck the state of Qatar,” Oren Alexander told The Real Deal. “They wanted something that was going to happen rather quickly, and everything else in terms of location or with the right width was a project, and they didn’t want a two- or three-year project. Foreigners especially don’t want to come to the States and go through the headache of hiring contractors and building something.” Ahmed Yousef Al-Rumaihi, consul general for the state of Qatar, said in a statement provided to The Real Deal by the Alexander team that “this is a perfect choice for our consulate, given its location, size, layout and infrastructure. Other than very minor cosmetic changes we may make, it is in move-in condition.” Qatari royals have been on somewhat of a buying binge in Manhattan over the last couple of years. In June 2013, Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim bin Jaber al-Thani, the country’s former prime minister, paid $35 million for the Ellen Biddle Shipman townhouse at Beekman Place. And a year before that, he negotiated deals to buy about $250 million worth of apartments in Extell’s One57 tower. The eleven-member Alexander Team also holds the listing for a $95 million, full-floor unit at the Sherry Netherland, which changed brokers earlier this month, a $58 million listing in the Hamptons and two Long Island Gold Coast estates that are listed for $15 million and $8 million respectively. FREE AppDownload
We spent a good chunk of this week covering hearings convened by the New York Department of Financial Services on the future of virtual currency regulation. The state is looking to be the first in the union to issue concrete regulatory guidance on firms that deal in  cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin.  DFS Superintendent Benjamin Lawksy said the agency would either seek to work within existing statutes, or issue special BitLicenses specifically tailored to Bitcoin businesses.  A decision is expected within the next few months. Whichever way the agency goes, the whole world will be taking note: Lawsky Tweeted the following chart showing the breakdown of countries tuning into the webcast of the hearings. More than 14,000 unique viewers watched: NYDFS FREE AppDownload
Flickr/partymonstrrrrMattel shares are down as much as 9% on news that the company's toy sales plunged over the holiday.  Worldwide net sales in the fourth quarter were down 6%, while core brands like Barbie and Fisher-Price fell 13%.  "By every account, 2013 was a challenging and transformative year at retail," Mattel CEO Bryan G. Stockton said in the company's earnings release. "Overall, the global toy industry held up pretty well, but we did not meet our growth expectations for the fourth quarter, or the full year, mainly driven by weakness in the U.S. market." Last year, Mattel said that Barbie was losing popularity to the brand's dark "Monster High" dolls.  Here's the full release:  EL SEGUNDO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Mattel, Inc. (MAT) today reported 2013 fourth quarter and full year financial results. For the fourth quarter, the Company reported net income of $369.2 million, or $1.07 per share, compared to last years fourth quarter net income of $306.5 million, or $0.87 per share, and last years fourth quarter adjusted net income of $393.6 million, or adjusted earnings per share of $1.12, excluding the impact of the litigation charge discussed below. For the year, the Company reported net income of $903.9 million, or $2.58 per share, compared to last years net income of $776.5 million, or $2.22 per share, and last years adjusted net income of $863.6 million, or adjusted earnings per share of $2.47, excluding the impact of the litigation charge. By every account, 2013 was a challenging and transformative year at retail," said Bryan G. Stockton, Mattel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Overall, the global toy industry held up pretty well, but we did not meet our growth expectations for the fourth quarter, or the full year, mainly driven by weakness in the U.S. market. That said, Mattel did deliver a fourth consecutive year of sales and earnings growth. We saw global strength in our girls portfolio, expanded gross margins, returned nearly $1 billion to our shareholders and continued to invest in emerging markets like China and Russia, which experienced significant growth. Looking ahead, Mattel enters 2014 with the strongest global portfolio of brands, countries and customers in the toy industry. We must now effectively execute against our strategy to grow the business and deliver superior shareholder value. Financial Overview For the fourth quarter, net sales were $2.11 billion, a 6% decrease from $2.26 billion last year, with no impact from changes in currency exchange rates. On a regional basis, fourth quarter gross sales were down 10% in the North American Region, which consists of the U.S.,Canada and American Girl, with no impact from changes in currency exchange rates. For the International Region, gross sales were flat to last year, including an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 1 percentage point. Operating income for the quarter was $479.3 million, or 22.7% of net sales. The prior years operating income for the quarter was $373.5 million and adjusted operating income was $511.3 million, excluding the impact of the litigation charge. For the year, net sales were $6.48 billion, a 1% increase from $6.42 billion last year, including an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 1 percentage point. On a regional basis, full year gross sales were down 2% in the North American Region, with no impact from changes in currency exchange rates. For the International Region, gross sales were up 5%, including an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 1 percentage point. Operating income for the year was $1.17 billion, or 18% of net sales. The prior years operating income was $1.02 billion, and adjusted operating income was $1.16 billion, excluding the impact of the litigation charge. The Companys debt-to-total capital ratio of 33.0% is in line with its capital and investment framework, and its year-end cash balance was $1.04 billion. For the year, net cash flows from operating activities were approximately $698 million, a decrease of $578 million compared with approximately $1.28 billion in 2012. The decrease is primarily driven by higher working capital usage, partially offset by higher net income. Cash flows used for investing activities were approximately $242 million, a decrease of $658 million, compared to approximately $900 million in 2012, driven primarily by the prior year acquisition of HIT Entertainment". Cash flows used for financing and other activities were approximately $752 million, an increase of $343 million, compared with approximately $409 million in 2012, primarily due to higher share repurchases and higher repayments of long-term debt, partially offset by net proceeds received from the issuance of long-term debt. Capital Deployment The Company announced today that its Board of Directors declared a first quarter cash dividend of $0.38 per share on the Company's common stock, which represents an increase of 6% versus last years dividend of $0.36 per share. The dividend will be payable on March 7, 2014 to stockholders of record on February 20, 2014. For the fourth quarter 2013, the Company repurchased 2.0 million shares of its common stock at a cost of approximately $83 million, and for the year, the Company repurchased 11.0 million shares of its common stock at a cost of approximately $469 million. In 2013, Mattels dividend will be classified as a non-dividend distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Although Mattel has significant retained earnings, these earnings do not constitute earnings and profits as defined in U.S. Federal tax rules. Non-dividend distributions are considered a return of capital and are generally not taxable; however, the recipient must adjust their cost basis to reflect the distribution. For 2013, 100% of the distribution is a non-dividend distribution. Please visithttp://investor.shareholder.com/mattel/ for more information. Mattel Girls &amp; Boys Brands For the fourth quarter, worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Girls &amp; Boys Brands business unit were $1.35 billion, down 4% versus a year ago. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were down 13% and worldwide gross sales for Other Girls Brands were up 12%, primarily driven by Disney Princess". Worldwide gross sales for the Wheels business, which includes the Hot Wheels, Matchbox® and Tyco R/C® brands, were down 11% for the quarter. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment business, which includes Radica® and Games, were down 6% for the quarter, driven by lower sales of Radica and Games, partially offset by the Disney Planes" movie property. For the year, worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Girls &amp; Boys Brands business unit were $4.32 billion, up 3% versus a year ago. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were down 6% for the year. Worldwide gross sales for Other Girls Brands were up 25% for the year, primarily driven by Monster High®. Worldwide gross sales for the Wheels business, which includes the Hot Wheels, Matchbox and Tyco R/C brands, were down 8% for the year. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment business, including Radica and Games, were flat for the year, primarily driven by the Disney Planes movie property, offset by decreases in Radica and Games. Fisher-Price Brands For the fourth quarter, worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit, which includes the Fisher-Price Core, Fisher-Price Friends, and Power Wheels brands, were $647.4 million, down 13% versus the prior year. For the year, worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit were $2.12 billion, down 6% versus the prior year, driven by a decline in Fisher-Price Core, partially offset by strong performance from Thomas &amp; Friends®, Octonauts" and new franchises, such as Mike the Knight® and Bubble Guppies". American Girl Brands For the fourth quarter, gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit were $331.6 million, up 3% versus the prior year, primarily driven by Saige, the 2013 Girl of the Year. For the year, gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit were $632.5 million, up 11% versus the prior year. 2012 Litigation Charge On January 24, 2013, the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals issued a decision on the litigation related to Carter Bryant and MGA Entertainment, Inc. The Ninth Circuit agreed with Mattel that the verdict and damages on MGAs toy fair claims must be reversed, and directed the District Court to dismiss the claims without prejudice. The Ninth Circuits decision vacated the District Courts judgment awarding MGA approximately $172 million, consisting primarily of compensatory and punitive damages, for the claims MGA made arising out of conduct at toy fairs. Consistent with the District Courts affirmance of the award of fees and costs against Mattel arising out of the separate copyright claims, Mattel took a charge of $137.8 million ($87.1 million net of taxes) with respect to the fourth quarter of 2012 to cover these fees and costs. Live Webcast Mattel will webcast its 2013 fourth quarter and full year financial results conference call at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time today. The conference call will be webcast on the &amp;quot;Investors&amp;quot; section of the Company's corporate website: http://corporate.mattel.com/. To listen to the live call, log on to the website at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. An archive of the webcast will be available on the Company's website for 90 days and may be accessed beginning two hours after the completion of the live call. A telephonic replay of the call will be available beginning at 11:30 a.m. Eastern time the morning of the call until Friday, Feb. 7 at midnight Eastern time and may be accessed by dialing + 1 (404) 537-3406. The passcode is 29340428. Presentation slides relating to the conference call, as well as other financial and statistical information, will be available at the time of the webcast on the Investors section of http://corporate.mattel.com/, under the sub-headings Financial Information Earnings Releases. Information required by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G regarding non-GAAP financial measures is set forth in the Exhibits to this press release. About Mattel The Mattel family of companies (Nasdaq: MAT) is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products. Mattels portfolio of best-selling brands includes Barbie®, the most popular fashion doll ever produced, Hot Wheels®, Monster High®, American Girl®, Thomas &amp; Friends® and Fisher-Price® brands, including Little People® and Power Wheels®, as well as a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. In 2013, Mattel was named one of the &amp;quot;World's Most Ethical Companies&amp;quot; by Ethisphere Magazineand is also ranked No. 2 on Corporate Responsibility Magazine's "100 Best Corporate Citizens" list. With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattels companies employ nearly 30,000 people in 40 countries and territories and sell products in more than 150 nations. At Mattel, we are Creating the Future of Play. Visit us at www.mattel.com,www.facebook.com/mattel or www.twitter.com/mattel. Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements on a variety of matters, including without limitation, the Companys expected quarterly cash dividend payments in 2014. These forward-looking statements are based on currently available operating, financial, economic and other information and are subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties. A variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, could cause actual future results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Some of these factors are described in the Company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the "Risk Factors" section ofMattel's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 and Mattel's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for fiscal year 2013, as well as in Mattel's other public statements. Mattel does not update forward-looking statements and expressly disclaims any obligation to do so. MAT-FIN 1 Consists of the North America Division (U.S. &amp; Canada) and American Girl   FREE AppDownload
YouTube/Russell InvestmentsRussell Investments' Chief Economist Mike Dueker was found dead in an apparent suicide. Police say it appears Dueker took his own life by jumping from a ramp near the Tacoma Narrows Bridge in Tacoma, Wash., the AP reports. According to Bloomberg, Dueker, 50, had been missing since Jan. 29, and friends and law enforcement had been searching for him. From Bloomberg: Dueker worked at Seattle-based Russell for five years, and developed a business-cycle index that forecast economic performance. He was previously an assistant vice president and research economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. He published dozens of research papers over the past two decades, many on monetary policy, according to the St. Louis Fed’s website, which ranks him among the top 5 percent of economists by number of works published. His most-cited work was a 1997 paper titled “Strengthening the case for the yield curve as a predictor of U.S. recessions,” published by the reserve bank while he was a researcher there. "We were deeply saddened to learn today of the death," a company spokesperson told Bloomberg. "He made valuable contributions that helped our clients and many of his fellow associates." Read the full report at Bloomberg » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru HanaiU.S.markets are in the red this morning as markets fall into "risk-off" mode. "While the talking heads are pointing to EM again, I think Japan is a big factor," writes Dave Lutz, head of ETF trading and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus. "The Yen is jumping, as Japan’s inflation posts the fastest rise in 5 years, prompting people to pull back on bets for the BOJ to ease further." Japan's core CPI — which, as Lutz notes, is the bank's favorite price metric — jumped 1.3% in December. That beat economist expectations for the second straight month. "Although the figure is still below the central bank’s 2% inflation target, it marked the fastest rise in over five years," says Lutz. "This has a bid under the Yen, and the unwind of the USDJPY 'Carry Trade' is a massive headwind this AM for the markets." Basically, markets are rethinking just how "easy" the Bank of Japan is really going to be now that it is seeing strong inflation numbers. From the Wall Street Journal: A few months ago, Takehiro Noguchi, a senior economist at Mizuho Research Institute, felt the BOJ might move as early as March this year to step up its easing measures to minimize the possible impact a sales tax hike coming in April could have on growth and prices. But improving CPI data, coupled with a series of upbeat remarks by BOJ officials over the past few months, have made him change his mind. “The probability of action in March now appears to be very low,” Mr. Noguchi said, adding that the BOJ appears to see no reason to move that early. If the bank is to act, it will be between April and September, he said. Here's USDJPY: FinViz   FREE AppDownload
Mike Carter-USA TODAY SportsJan 25, 2014; East Lansing, MI, USA; Michigan Wolverines bench reacts to a play during the 2nd half of a game at Jack Breslin Student Events Center. Michigan won 80-75.The final results of the University of Michigan's monthly consumer confidence survey are out. The report's headline index fell to 81.2 in January from December's 82.5 reading, but bested both preliminary estimates released by the University of Michigan earlier this month (80.4) and the median estimate of Wall Street economists (81.0). The economic conditions sub-index fell to 96.8 from 98.6, while the economic outlook sub-index fell to 71.2 from 72.1. Inflation expectations one year head rose to 3.1% from 3.0%, while inflation expectations five years ahead rose to 2.9% from 2.7%. FREE AppDownload
The Institute for Supply Management says its purchasing manager's index (PMI) hit 59.6 in January.  Analysts expected a reading of 59.0, down from a revised 60.8. But the employment subindex slipped below 50, signaling contraction. The reading came in at 49.2 versus 51.6 in December. It's the lowest reading since last April. Full release » "...While employment fell back into contraction, this doesn‘t appear to be indicative of current demand conditions,” ISM economist Philip Uglow said, adding: “Business activity continued to ease in January but remained at a  relatively high level. Production and New Orders remained firm." Here's the chart: Pantheon FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Ronald Martinez/Getty ImagesA quant asset management firm has developed a model to predict the winner of the Super Bowl. Los Angeles-based Analytic Investors believes that the Denver Broncos will beat the Seattle Seahawks in the Super Bowl XLVIII by more than three points. For the past several years, Analytic Investors has released its "NFL Alphas" [.PDF] analysis. The "NFL Alphas" model first began with portfolio manager Steve Sapra, who's really in to sports economics.  This year, the analysis was completed by portfolio analyst Matt Robinson, who focuses on Japanese equities at the firm.  Robinson explained that the NFL Alphas model analyzes NFL teams as if they were stocks. Basically, they look at each teams return on investment (ROI) for the year if you were to have placed a consistent wager on them throughout the regular NFL season. Analytic Investors' calculations show that the Seahawks have an alpha of 13.7% and the Broncos have an alpha of 4.6%. However, the quant shop believes that sports bettors are likely to overestimate that the the Seahawks are going to win because their alpha is higher.  Analytic Investors is predicting that the Broncos will be victorious. To understand why, here's how the model works:  Over the course of the season, NFL teams play each game with a point spread. The spreads are established by bookmakers in Las Vegas.  The bookmakers make a line.   For example, if you're going to sports bet in Vegas and you're going to bet on the Giants, you might bet that they win a regular season NFL game by more than three points.  If the Giants only win by two points, you're going to lose money.  In sum, a point spread can be thought of as the market expectation for each team for each game.  How they perform versus the point spread is either alpha or the reverse.   Once Analytic Investors computes the teams alphas, they throw in some analysis of their own. Based on Analytic Investors' NFL Alphas model, history has shown that between the regular NFL season and the post season, or even the following regular season, there tends to be a mean reversion of the alphas. Basically, teams that underperformed throughout the year tend to outperform in the post season, and the following season.  Teams that outperformed during the regular season tend to underperform during the post season. That's why the team with the lower alpha is expected to do better in the Super Bowl. Need proof? Over the last ten Super Bowls, the model has correctly picked the under-valued team nine times.   "The Broncos will win because they had the worst ROI, return on investment, out of the two teams," Robinson told Business Insider. "So we see that the team with the lower ROI, or alpha, tends to be a little undervalued going into the post season."   All of this is actually analogous to the stock market.  "If you're looking at these two teams as stocks, you could see the Seahawks as the team that's in the news and has kind of relatively outperformed and it's a hot stock that's been bid up throughout the year.  And we expect that stock to come back to earth, per se, in the post season," Robinson explained, adding that the Broncos have relatively underperformed in comparison.   Of course, Analytic Investors doesn't use the NFL Alphas model to make money for the fund or to sports bet. They do this just for fun, Robinson added.  Check out the alphas below:    Analytic Investors   FREE AppDownload
This morning's release of personal income and spending data revealed that the savings rate plunged to its lowest level since 2008 in December, excluding the outlier data point in January 2013 that resulted from a spike in early dividend payments related to the fiscal cliff and subsequent drop. "With real incomes after tax down 0.2%, the saving rate dropped to 3.9% from 4.3%," says Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. "The downward trend in savings cannot continue; we believe the Q4 decline was due to people spending unexpectedly high cash balances resulting from lower spending on energy in Q3. Savings will rebound in Q1. Even with better income — December was hit by the weather — we look for real spending to slow to 2-2.5% from 3.3%. The chart shows that the saving rate is now below the low seen in the 2002-04 period, before the housing boom allowed it to fall even further. With a repeat of the housing boom unlikely, the saving rate likely will struggle to stay at this low level." Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Pascal LauenerGoldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein will earn $23 million for 2013, the Financial Times' Camilla Hall and Stephen Foley report. That's a 10% increase. From the FT: Mr Blankfein was awarded 88,422 in restricted share units, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, that are worth $14.7m based on Goldman’s closing share price of $165.84 on Thursday. The restricted stock units, which typically total about 70 per cent of his bonus, mean he is expected to be paid another $6.3m in cash. That is in addition to his $2m salary, taking his overall package to $23m. Blankfein rival and JP Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon also got a raise (amid the bank's legal troubles) after taking a massive $11.5 million pay cut in 2012. Read the full report at the FT » FREE AppDownload
ChinaFotoPress/Getty ImagesThe December 2013 reading of personal income and spending is out. Personal income came in unchanged, at 0.0%, when economists were expecting a 0.2% bump. Personal spending slowed to 0.4% from a revised 0.6% in November, but beat economist expectations for 0.2% "Weakness in hours and earnings in the employment report pointed to lower wage and salary income, and slowing farm income support payments are also likely to be a drag again, so overall personal income should be little changed," Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman wrote clients ahead of the report. "Meanwhile, the surprisingly strong 0.7% gain in core ex auto retail sales and a modest expected gain in services should offset the pullback in unit auto sales to leave consumer spending a bit higher," he wrote. "With real incomes after tax down 0.2%, the saving rate dropped to 3.9% from 4.3%, hitting its lowest levels since Jan," Pantheon's Ian Shepherdson wrote after the report. "The downward trend in savings cannot continue; we believe the Q4 decline was due to people spending unexpectedly high cash balances resulting from lower spending on energy in Q3. Savings will rebound in Q1. Even with better income - Dec was hit by the weather - we look for real spending to slow to 2-2.5% from 3.3%." Click here for updates » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stefan WermuthThe December update to the price index of core personal consumption expenditures is out. The core PCE price index rose 0.1% from a month earlier, bringing the year-over-year rate core inflation rate to 1.2% from 1.1%, as expected. The year-over-year change in the price index of core PCE is the measure of inflation cited by the Federal Reserve in its policy communications. Given the increased significance inflation has taken on lately in the Fed's forward guidance on the likely future path of short-term interest rates, some on the Street — like Goldman Sachs chief economist Jan Hatzius and Credit Suisse chief economist Neal Soss — believe inflation reports are the new jobs reports. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/istolethetvYou probably already know that exercise is good for you, but have you ever stopped to ask yourself why? The short answer is that exercise hurts your body, prompting a reaction. When you go for a run, lift weights, or play football, any discomfort is like a clarion call to the body, telling it that it needs to be better equipped to deal with the situation. The response - it becomes stronger, bigger, or more efficient - is why we exercise. This process is natural and normal, but it's easy to disrupt it with too much exercise. We constantly walk a tight rope between adequate stimulation leading to progression, and a lack of recovery which can lead to over-training. The perils of overtraining are numerous. Not only can it undo all the hard work you put in down the gym, but it can also leave you a husk of the man you were: lethargic, unable to sleep, iritable and without sex drive. What's more, the disruption it causes to your body's systems can actually lead to weight gain - ironic, but definitely not funny. I find it useful in both my own training and that of my clients to plan for recovery as seriously as I plan the workouts. Below are ten steps you can take to facilitate speedy and complete recovery from your exercise efforts. 1. Structured Rest. Factoring in deliberate rest days is essential to any intense training program. Remember: more is not always better, and you don't get stronger in the gym, you get stronger whilst you rest. I suggest incorporating a 'down' week every 8-12 weeks of intense exercise to allow your body to properly recover. This could be an entire week away from exercise or a time to temporarily reduce weight, intensity or volume. Believe me, your body will thank you for it. On the flip side, it's important that you don't take too much rest, as your body will decondition and you'll end up with that dreaded muscle ache that lasts for days after each workout section. Everyone is different, but a good rule of thumb is three hour-long workouts a week. 2. Sleep. Make sure you get good quality sleep, as running a constant sleep debt can impair both workout intensity and recovery. Take steps to enhance the quality of your sleep where possible. Investing in a good mattress and pillow often pays dividends. You may also want to take into consideration room temperature, lighting and noise control to create the perfect environment for tranquil sleep. 3. Avoid alcohol. Alcohol intake harms muscle recovery. With each and every 'cheeky' or 'swift' pint you sneak down the pub, you ply your system with toxins. The body has to deal with these as a priority, which means it can't direct as much attention as you would like to helping your muscles heal and grow. As boring as it sounds, staying off the booze will help you recover quicker. 4. Hydrate. After a workout it is very important to replace the fluids lost during exercise. Aim to consume at least two litres of water per day - more if you have been sweating due to vigorous exercise. 5. Stretch. Stretching before and after a workout can help facilitate muscle recovery by reducing lactic acid and improving circulation. Yoga and Pilates can also be great disciples to help with this - however, be aware that due to the new stimulus they may actually temporarily impair recovery. Consider introducing these new activities during a scheduled 'down' period. 6. Ice Baths. Many professional athletes take regular ice baths for recovery benefits. I've tried them and they definitely worked for me. Be warned, though: ice baths are far from pleasant. You may also want to try water contrast therapy, which involves alternating between hot and cold water to repeatedly constrict and dilate blood vessels, helping to rid the system of waste products. Use a warm shower for one minute followed by a 30 second blast of cold water and repeat. 7. Proper nutrition. Exercise progress is as much concerned with eating the right things as it is with what you do in the gym. Ensure that you are eating enough calories to recover and that you have your macronutrients balanced properly. For example, not enough protein in your diet can lead to loss of muscle mass, whilst too few carbohydrates can lead to poor performance and fatigue. Avoid heavily restricted diet programs, they are often unsustainable and do not facilitate healthy amounts of vigorous activity. 8. Get a Massage. A good sports massage therapist will be able to help you relieve tension in your muscles, flush toxins from your body and put you in an all around relaxed state. Typically, I aim to have a sports massage once a week. 9. Mind Power. Positive self talk can help stimulate your sub-conscious to aid in your performance and recovery. Personally, each night I ask my body to rejuvenate every cell in my body and allow me to wake fully rested and ready to hit the next morning running. I find great benefit in this practice - but I also appreciate that it's not for everyone! All in all, the most important factor leading to full and thorough recovery is listening to you body. It'll usually be pretty clear in its desire for what you need, whether that be time off, water, food or a more rewarding frame of mind to approach your exercise regime with. In fitness circles we call this instinctive training: our bodies are naturally very highly attuned to our needs. If we learn to answers those needs well, we stand to get more out of our workouts and ultimately our lives. Scott Laidler is a personal trainer and personal development coach based in London. Contact Scott at www.scottlaidler.com for personal training and online fitness coaching.  FREE AppDownload
YouTube Just out from WalMart. The company has issued an earnings warning and the stock is down 3.3%. The release identifies several factors including weakness in emerging markets. BENTONVILLE, Ark., Jan. 31, 2014 -- Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (WMT:NYSE) today updated expectations for its fourth quarter and fiscal year 2014 financial results that the company provided in its third quarter report issued on Nov. 14, 2013.  The company will release its detailed report on the fourth quarter and full year as scheduled on Feb. 20, 2014. The company had provided fourth quarter diluted earnings per share from continuing operations (EPS) guidance of $1.50 to $1.60, which included a $0.10 per share impact from two discrete items, which resulted in an underlying[1] EPS guidance range of $1.60 to $1.70.  For the full year, the company expected to deliver EPS of $5.01 to $5.11 and accounting for the $0.10 of discrete items, the range for underlying EPS was between $5.11 and $5.21. “We now anticipate that our underlying EPS for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014 will be at or slightly below the low end of our range of $1.60 to $1.70,” said Charles Holley, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. chief financial officer.  “For the full year, we expect underlying EPS to be at or slightly below the low end of our range of $5.11 to $5.21. “Today, we are providing updated information on previously disclosed items, as well as new additional discrete items that were not anticipated when we provided our fourth quarter and full year guidance.  These discrete items will impact EPS results for the fourth quarter and the year,” said Holley. Holley reviewed the details of these new discrete items affecting the fourth quarter results as noted below.  [1] See additional information at the end of this release regarding the underlying EPS non-GAAP financial measure.    Previously disclosed items impacting EPS guidance for three months ended Jan. 31, 2014 New discrete items *Note: All EPS amounts are approximate. Detailed explanation on discrete items Brazil and China store closures: Approximately 50 underperforming units between these two markets were closed. India transaction: Walmart terminated the franchise and supply agreements related to retail stores.  The estimated charge for this transaction is now approximately $0.05 per share versus the previous estimate of $0.04 per share. Brazil non-income tax contingencies: The company is subject to tax examinations for non-income taxes in Brazil.  A number of these examinations are ongoing, and in certain cases, have resulted in assessments from taxing authorities, some of which we are currently contesting. As part of the company’s standard review process and as a result of changing conditions and circumstances, the company expects to record additional liabilities related to these loss contingencies. Brazil employment claim contingencies: We expect to record additional charges related to employment claims.  Walmart Brazil has experienced a significant increase in employment claims in recent years as a result of company efforts to improve productivity and reduce costs.  The company has performed a detailed review of potential liabilities related to these claims, as well as a review of our historical processes and practices related to accounting for court deposits required to litigate such claims.  As a result of this review, the company expects to record charges to increase our liabilities and account for settlements of historical employment claims.  China store lease expense charges: We identified a historical lease accounting practice that did not conform to our U.S. GAAP - based global policies.  As a result, the company expects to record a charge to conform to this accounting practice. Sam’s Club U.S restructuring and club closure: Sam’s Club is implementing a new in-club leadership and staff structure to better align U.S. club teams with the sales volume of each club, and expects to record a charge for severance – related costs.  Additionally, one club is being closed.     The guidance range of $1.50 to $1.60 provided on Nov. 14, 2013 included $0.10 per share for the store closures and India transaction.  With today’s update, the additional impact on EPS from the new discrete items ($0.15) and the change on the India transaction ($0.01) are estimated to be approximately $0.16.  In the Nov. 14 third quarter report, Walmart also provided information on the pending sale of the Vips restaurant business in Mexico by Walmart de Mexico y Centroamerica and the possible completion of the transaction in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014. The transaction remains subject to regulatory approval and is now expected to be completed in the first quarter of fiscal 2015.  Vips is recorded in discontinued operations and the estimated future gain from the sale is expected to be approximately $0.06 per share.   Update on U.S. segment comp sales Walmart also provided context for the comparable sales performance of its U.S. operating segments. “For the 14-week period ending Jan. 31, 2014, we expect both Walmart U.S. and Sam’s Club comp store sales, without fuel², to be slightly negative to the guidance provided in our third quarter report,” Holley said.  “Walmart U.S. guidance on Nov. 14 was for comp sales to be relatively flat, and Sam’s expected comps, without fuel, to be between flat and 2 percent. “Despite a holiday season that delivered positive comps, two factors contributed to lower comp sales performance for the 14-week period for Walmart U.S.,” Holley explained.  “First, the sales impact from the reduction in SNAP (the U.S. government Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program) benefits that went into effect Nov. 1 is greater than we expected.  And, second, eight named winter storms resulted in store closures that impacted traffic throughout the quarter.     “Sam’s Club was also impacted by the weather throughout the quarter,” Holley added.  The company will issue its detailed financial results for the fourth quarter and full year of fiscal 2014 and its expectations for fiscal year 2015 on Thurs., Feb. 20, 2014 at 7 a.m. Eastern Standard Time.     FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Thomas PeterAnti-government protesters gather at an open fire site as temperatures stand at minus 20 degrees Celsius (minus 4 degrees Fahrenheit) at a barricade near Independence Square in Kiev, January 30, 2014. Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovich has gone on sick leave with a respiratory ailment, his website said on Thursday, with the issue of a new prime minister still undecided. Yanukovich's prime minister, Mykola Azarov, resigned on Tuesday in the midst of mass street unrest and the president has yet to appoint a successor. Serhiy Arbuzov, who was Azarov's first deputy, has stepped in as interim prime minister. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. — Markets seem to have reverted to "risk off" mode to close out the week. S&amp;P 500 futures are down 0.8%, and have already completely erased yesterday's big rally. Asian stock indices mostly closed lower and European indices are getting hammered across the board. Emerging-market currencies like the Turkish lira and the South African rand are tumbling against the dollar, and the dollar is sliding against the euro and the yen. Meanwhile, gold and U.S. Treasury futures are turning in a strong performance. — German retail sales unexpectedly tumbled 2.5% from the previous month and 2.4% from the previous year in December. The consensus forecast among market economists called for a 0.2% and 1.9% rise, respectively. Across the eurozone, the unemployment rate remained unchanged in December at 12.0%, defying consensus expectations for a tick up to 12.1%, while consumer price inflation unexpectedly slowed to 0.7% year over year from 0.8% — economists were looking for inflation to accelerate to 0.9%. — Japanese consumer price inflation hit a 5-year high of 1.6% year over year in December. Excluding food and energy, prices rose 0.7% year over year, accelerating from November's 0.6% rate. Meanwhile, Japanese unemployment fell faster than expected in December to 3.7% from November's 4.0% rate. Economists were looking for a tick down to 3.9%. — Emerging markets suffered big outflows this week. "EPFR is reporting that in the week through January 29, U.S.-based emerging market equity funds saw $6.3 billion of net withdrawals, the most since August 2011," say currency strategists at Brown Brothers Harriman. "On the month, some $12.2 billion has left. Emerging market bond funds reportedly experienced $2.7 billion redemptions over the course of the week and close to twice as much on the month." — Bond traders are passing around a new Peterson Institute white paper authored by Brian Sack and Joseph Gagnon proposing a new monetary framework in which the Fed uses the reverse repo facility it is currently testing to conduct monetary policy in the future. Kenneth Silliman, head of U.S. short-term rates trading at TD Securities, says the paper may have "created the late-session bid to the front-end of the U.S." — This morning in the United States, we get December personal income and consumer spending data, out at 8:30 AM ET. Economists predict incomes rose 0.2% in December, matching November's pace of growth, while spending growth is expected to have slowed to 0.2% from 0.5%. — Also out at 8:30 is the release of the Fed's favorite measure of inflation, the monthly price index of core personal consumption expenditures. Economists predict core PCE accelerated to 1.2% year over year in December from November's 1.1% reading. — The results of the monthly Chicago Purchasing Managers Index survey are released at 9:45. Economists predict the index fell to 59.0 from December's 60.8 reading, indicating a slight slowdown in the pace of improvement in business conditions for Midwest manufacturers. — The final results of the University of Michigan's monthly consumer confidence survey round out the week's data releases at 9:55. Economists predict the report's headline index fell to 81.0 from 82.5 in January, slightly better than the preliminary 80.4 reading released by Michigan two weeks ago.  — Russian GDP growth slowed to 1.3% year over year in 2013 from 3.4% in 2012, worse than economists' consensus estimate of a slowdown to 1.5%. The data highlight the trouble that Russia and many other emerging markets face — slowing growth at a time when portfolio outflows and current account imbalances are putting pressure on their currencies. FREE AppDownload
APSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - More than 100 million people will be glued to their TV screens on Sunday, when the Denver Broncos take on the Seattle Seahawks in America's premier sporting contest, the Super Bowl. But two fierce rivals, Facebook Inc and Twitter Inc, will also be clashing head-to-head on a "second screen" that TV viewers will tune in for the big game. The two social networks are jostling to be the venue of choice for fans to comment on big plays, the star-studded halftime show and of course the commercials - multimillion dollar productions by major brands that are often a draw in their own right. The Super Bowl is the biggest stage for a broader battle that has intensified over the past year between the two behemoths of social media. By dominating online chatter during events such as the American football game, each company hopes to attract users and advertisers and capture a slice of the $70 billion spent annually on U.S. television advertising. Both companies can serve up new ads in real time and can target specific audiences. For years, the "second-screen" leader has been Twitter, which positioned its chatty, 140-character message platform as the go-to place for viewers to discuss events as they happen, from presidential debates to the Academy Awards. But Facebook, the world's largest social network with 1.2 billion users - roughly five times the size of Twitter - is now making aggressive moves to get into the real-time conversation itself. "Twitter is better at engaging in the real-time conversation," said Quinn Kilbury, the brand director for Newcastle Brown Ale. "But Facebook is catching up quickly - and you can't match their scale." This Super Bowl will be a major test for Facebook, which has spent the past year rolling out new features designed to close the gap with Twitter. The Menlo Park, California-based company has hired a team, including former TV producers, to help broadcasters extract insights about the Facebook users watching their programming, such as how a team's fans breakdown by gender or geographic region. ReutersFor the Super Bowl, Facebook will team directly with Fox Sports, the network owned by Twenty-First Century Fox Inc, which is airing the game, to showcase pre-game chatter from Facebook and Instagram users alongside typical game stats. A specially created website will chart user data and comments in real time. The company has also actively encouraged athletes such as Carolina Panthers running back DeAngelo Williams to post commentary on the game to Facebook - athletes frequently use Twitter to sound off. "Facebook offers a really unique experience as a place where you can go to discover great content, but Facebook also offers a very personal aspect as well," said Justin Osofsky, Facebook's vice president of media partnerships and global operations, who is driving the company to be something of a virtual sports bar where fans banter and spar. After Seahawks cornerback Richard Sherman's controversial interview during a playoff game earlier this month, 4.4 million Facebook users discussed the incident on the social network during the following three days, he said. Facebook has made several tweaks that mimic its smaller rival. In December, it began displaying trending topics along the right side of the home page, a feature that Twitter has had on the left. Last summer, Facebook introduced "hashtags," or clickable keywords with a pound sign that Twitter users often employ to keep track of viral conversations. But Facebook regulars have not seemed to warm up to the new features yet. A September study by EdgeRank Checker, a consulting firm that analyzes how marketing content performs on Facebook, showed that hashtags on Facebook posts had a negligible effect on making them go viral, while Twitter messages with hashtags were twice as likely to be retweeted. Facebook is also hoping it will have more luck convincing marketers to feature Facebook more prominently in their TV ads. During the 2013 Super Bowl, Twitter was mentioned in 26 of the 52 national TV commercials that aired during the game, according to a count by the blog Marketing Land. Facebook was mentioned in just four of those commercials. Twitter also has a partnership with the NFL, which will also be tweeting content - including game footage - before and after the game. WAR ROOM As mobile adoption skyrocketed in the past three years, doubts about the effectiveness of reaching viewers via the "second screen" has gradually dissipated. According to a Nielsen study in June, nearly half of smartphone owners and tablet owners said they use their devices while watching TV every day. "This is probably the year where a critical mass of people have heard the term second screen," Pete Vlastelica, senior vice president of digital for Fox Sports Media Group. "I can't imagine many people watching this without a second device in their hand. We've been designing the Super Bowl experience with that in mind." For many marketers, the potential of reaching football viewers on social networks was driven home during last year's Super Bowl when the game was halted for 30 minutes in the third quarter due to a power outage at the stadium. Activity on Twitter surged, with tweets peaking at a rate of 231,500 per minute. Within minutes, the Oreo cookie brand quickly created a cheeky Twitter ad reminding users that they could still "dunk" a cookie in a glass of milk in the dark. The ad went viral, quickly garnering 15,000 retweets, and underscored the potential for nimble advertisers to make a splash without paying for a million-dollar 30-second TV spot. The lesson has not been lost on marketers, who with coaching from Twitter are setting up "war rooms" - physical or virtual - this year to monitor the game and seize on the right opportunity to make an impact. "You've got to be nimble and you've got to be in the game, not just a player on the field watching the game," said Michael Neuwirth, a spokesman for Dannon yogurt, which will have six to 10 employees from its digital, brand, legal and public relations teams watching the game over a teleconference line. "We don't know what's going to happen but we want a team that's ready," Neuwirth said. While Sunday's game will end with one team coming out on top, the contest between Facebook and Twitter will carry on throughout a full year of high-profile sporting events including the Winter Olympics and the World Cup. "Advertisers want to be where users are," said JMP Securities analyst Ronald Josey. "Every single event that brings big audiences together is going to be incrementally important for both companies," said Josey. (Additional reporting by Jennifer Saba in New York; Editing by Edwin Chan, Peter Henderson and Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's core consumer inflation rose at the fastest pace in more than five years in December and the job market improved, encouraging signs for the Bank of Japan as it seeks to vanquish deflation with aggressive money printing. Factory output also grew in December and manufacturers expect to keep increasing production, although some analysts fret about potential damage from the recent turmoil in emerging markets. The data points to an economy that continues to pick up momentum on strong domestic demand. However, BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda expressed some caution about export demand as many of Japan's Asian trading partners remain weak. "The core consumer price index was stronger than expected, and durable goods prices seem to be rebounding. Consumer prices will likely continue moderate growth," said Junko Nishioka, chief economist at RBS Securities. "I think the BOJ is unlikely to adopt additional easing because there is no reason to justify it given the positive macro-economic environment." Core consumer prices (CPI), which excludes fresh food but include energy costs, rose 1.3 percent in December from a year ago, data showed on Friday, just above a median market forecast for a 1.2 percent gain. That followed a 1.2 percent increase in November, and marked the fastest annual gain since 1.9 percent in October 2008, data from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications showed. Last year, Japan's core consumer prices rose 0.4 percent, the first increase in five years. In a further sign price gains are broadening, the so-called core-core inflation index, which excludes food and energy prices and is similar to the core index used in the United States, rose 0.7 percent in the year to December, matching a high hit in August 1998. Japan's industrial output rose 1.1 percent in December, suggesting that robust domestic demand is underpinning the economy as consumers rush to beat a national sales tax hike in April. This is making up for soft exports to emerging markets. The rise roughly matched a median market forecast of a 1.2 percent increase, and followed a 0.1 percent drop in November. The jump in output is a welcome sign for the world's third-largest economy, which has steadily recovered over the past year on the back of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's massive fiscal and monetary stimulus policies. Manufacturers surveyed by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry expect output to rise 6.1 percent in January and increase 0.3 percent in February, data showed on Friday. Robust domestic demand, coupled with a weak yen that inflates import costs, helped Japan pass the halfway mark toward achieving the BOJ's 2 percent inflation target. However, a recent selloff in emerging market stocks and currencies has reminded investors that Japan still faces risks that a renewed downturn in overseas economies will sap demand for Japanese goods. "One reason Japan's exports have struggled to pick up momentum is that emerging ASEAN countries that Japanhas a close relationship with have not recovered as quickly as expected," Kuroda told lawmakers in parliament. "These economies are expected to recover, but we cannot say this will apply to every case." Kuroda has expressed confidence that prices will reach the bank's target in the two-year timeframe it pledged when adopting an aggressive stimulus policy in April. But many analysts remain skeptical on whether price growth will accelerate from here, worried about an expected slump in consumption after the tax hike and the fading boost from the weak yen to prices. Annual wage negotiations, which take place in the spring, will be an important test of whether labor unions can secure higher salaries needed to help consumer spending weather the tax increase. An International Monetary Fund official said Japan's economy is likely to take longer than the target two-year timeframe to reach the inflation goal, even though prices are rising steadily. (Editing by Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
Joe Weisenthal, Business InsiderDave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus passes along the top topics about which traders are talking about today. Good Morning!  US Futures are starting sharply in the red this AM, and while the talking heads are pointing to EM again, I think Japan is a big factor.   The Yen is jumping, as Japan’s Inflation posts the fastest rise in 5 years, prompting people to pull back on bets for the BOJ to ease further.   Today is month-end, and to put the performance of the S&amp;P 500 in context, the full extent of its drop this month merely erased the gains seen during the last two weeks of 2013.  WSJ highlights that since 1950, there have been 24 years in which the S&amp;P 500 fell in January – but in 13 of those 24 years, stocks rose over the final 11 months (January Indicator has a 50% hit rate).   S&amp;P Futures are off 80bp, and have taken out yesterday’s lows and nearing a 100dma test again.   Nasdaq futures are faring slightly better on earnings reports, despite AAPL taking out yesterday’s lows in the pre-market (AAPL is the largest member of the NDX at 13%, and the S&amp;P at 3%).   Over in Europe, the DAX is getting whacked for 2% (Surprise drop in Retail Sales)  in heavy trading.   The EU fins are off 2%, as PIIGS Yields are bleeding wider and regulatory headlines hit.   The Nikkei lost 70bp, and futures are indicating another 2% drop right now.  Asia’s other major bourses were closed to observe the lunar new year holiday in China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Indonesia, Singapore, Vietnam and Korea. Single stock movers include ZNGA (#s, Acq), CMG (#s), WYNN (#s), GOOG (#s) – Losers are AMZN (#s) – and we get CVX and MA before the bell.  We do have the monthly Russell rebalance on the close.We do have softness in EM – while Brazil and South Africa’s FX remain stable, Hungary is seeing the Forint taking out lows against the $ as concerns mount on upcoming Debt rolls.   Turkey’s Lira is under pressure, but above yesterday’s lows – as Moody’s is out warning on economic impact of  Turkey’s hike.  The Ruble remains under pressure as Russia’s GDP contacts, and questions abound on the huge RSX put buying yesterday.   Interesting, we are seeing a rebound in EM Asia – especially in countries most exposed to Chinese data (We get official PMI numbers over the weekend)The 10YY in the US is taking out the week’s floor – pressing the yield closer to 2.65% (I maintain a 2.5% target) – as Fixed-income assets worldwide are posting their biggest January returns since 2008.  The € is getting hit, as EU Inflation data comes in light (No Ratings reviews scheduled for today in EU), and the Yen is popping as their inflation print silences doves.   Overall the DXY is flat, but we are seeing eakness in the Energy Complex, led by another 3% drop in Nat Gas, as margin calls reduce levered positions from the recent squeeze higher on the expiry roll.   Both Silver and Gold are well bid, with the Yellow metal bouncing off the 50dma.   Ahead of us today we have ISM Milwaukee at 9am, Chicago PMI at 9:45 (but paying subscribers get at 9:40), Univ. of Michigan Confidence at 9:55, The week’s largest POMO operation ($3.75-$4.75B) at 11, and Fed's Fisher to Speak on Fed Operations at 1:15. FREE AppDownload
AFPShandra Woworuntu (L), human trafficking survivor and activist, and Melysa Sperber, director of the Alliance to End Slavery and Trafficking, speak during an interview with AFP, at Humanity United in Washington, DC, on January 28, 2014"Are you Shandra? Yes, I am." With those few words, a young Indonesian with big dreams of a better life found herself catapulted into the murky underground world of sex slavery and violence. But Shandra Woworuntu, then 25, was not trapped in a sordid brothel plying clients in some far-flung Asian tourist hotspot. Instead the college graduate and young mother was whisked away from New York's busy John F. Kennedy airport with a gun to her head by an organized gang working in the heart of the world's economic superpower. Nothing had prepared the slight, softly spoken, shy woman to become one of the thousands of men, women and children lured into the hidden world of sex trafficking and forced labor in the United States every year. After losing her job as a financial analyst in a bank in the chaos unleashed by Asia's economic crisis, Shandra replied to a newspaper ad for temporary work in a hotel in Chicago. In 2001, having passed a test, and armed with a visa from the US embassy, she left her young daughter, promising to return home soon. "I was excited -- I thought this was the American dream. I will earn some money and I will go back after six months," she told AFP. But on her very first night on US soil, she was put to work in a New York brothel, before being passed from pimp to pimp -- a Malaysian known as Johnnie Wong, a Taiwanese guy, a man who only spoke Cantonese, and even an American. "They put a gun on my head, and I just think I have to save my life," she said in somewhat broken English, her voice at times dropping to a whisper. "Maybe I have been kidnapped, I didn't know exactly. What I need to do is life survival." Many of the girls and women she encountered working in the brothels had also been lured from abroad, some from her native Indonesia. She was the oldest of the group. Most were just teenagers. One young girl, whose age she guessed at as between 10 to 12, did not speak any language Shandra recognized. "I never knew where she came from," she said sadly. She was forced to work through the night in casinos and hotels where clients would pick from the girls lined up in front of them or would telephone for services. "The phone was always ringing," remembered Shandra, who said the women were often denied food, but were presented with tables laden with alcohol and drugs. Moved many times in vans with tinted glass and held in rooms with shuttered windows, and barred by beefy bodyguards, Shandra lost all notion of time. And she was told that she had to work to repay a $30,000 "recruitment fee." To this day, she can't say how long she endured captivity, knowing only she arrived in spring and it was turning cold that same year when she escaped. "This is not the job that they promised," she said, without a hint of irony. An open bathroom window, two floors up, gave her her chance. Persuading one other girl to go with her, they jumped, and miraculously survived unscathed. After weeks of living rough, with the police, church, and the FBI all refusing to believe her story -- and even falling into the hands of another pimp -- Shandra, whose passport and all documents had been stripped from her on day one, finally found help with a victim's agency called Safe Horizon. While her tale might sound incredible, agencies say it is very common. And it doesn't just concern foreigners -- young American runaways all too often put themselves in dangerous situations wooed by tales of modeling careers and lucrative music contracts. The Alliance To End Slavery and Trafficking estimates about 14,000 to 17,000 men, women and children are smuggled illegally into the US every year to work in the sex trade or in factories, farms and bars as forced labor. "This is organized crime and they are very organized. And what we see is that they are increasingly more sophisticated in how they are committing this crime," said the alliance's director, Melysa Sperber. The group is calling for greater government controls on the recruiters who lure vulnerable people to US shores every year. In its 2013 global Trafficking in Persons report, the State Department recognized that the United States is "a source, transit, and destination country for men, women, and children -- both US citizens and foreign nationals -- subjected to forced labor, debt bondage, involuntary servitude, and sex trafficking" with victims mainly coming from Mexico, Thailand, the Philippines, Honduras and Indonesia. While prosecutions by federal agencies were on the rise due to greater awareness of the problem, the report recommended that funding should be increased to agencies providing victim services, and there should be greater oversight on contractors hiring foreign laborers. Legislation is now pending in the House of Representatives sponsored by congressman Ed Royce seeking to close such loopholes, such as requiring foreign hirers to be registered with the Labor Department. It would also ensure foreign labor contractors would have to provide the names of the employers and recruiters and a signed contract. The bill "provides the tools needed to avoid the scams of unscrupulous labor recruiters who force workers into slave labor or sexual slavery once they enter the US," Royce said when he introduced the bill in October. "The human cost of trafficking is painfully high -- we must act." Although still emotionally scarred by her past, Shandra, who helped law enforcement agents bust at least one of the networks which brutalized her, is now proudly putting her experiences to use to try to fight human trafficking. "If I don't stand for them who live in the shadows, become a voice of the voiceless... the government, the community will not know that it's happening," she told AFP. "I hope I can do more to help them identify the victims ... because I believe with my connection, with all of us together, we will fight modern-day slavery." Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Giff Johnson/AFP/FileBoats in the Marshall Islands.An emaciated man whose boat washed up on a remote Pacific atoll this week claims he survived 16 months adrift on the Pacific, floating more than 12,500 kilometres (8,000 miles) from Mexico, a researcher said Friday. The man, with long hair and beard, was discovered Thursday when his 24-foot fiberglass boat with propeller-less engines floated onto the reef at Ebon Atoll and he was spotted by two locals. "His condition isn't good, but he's getting better," Ola Fjeldstad, a Norwegian anthropology student doing research on Ebon, the southern most outpost of the Marshalls, told AFP by telephone. Fjeldstad said the man, dressed only in a pair of ragged underpants, claims he left Mexico for El Salvador in September 2012 with a companion who died at sea several months ago. Details of his survival are sketchy, Fjeldstad added, as the man only speaks Spanish, but he said his name was Jose Ivan. "The boat is really scratched up and looks like it has been in the water for a long time," said the researcher from Ebon. FreeMapToolsThe distance between Mexico and the Marshall Islands Ivan indicated to Fjeldstad that he survived by eating turtles, birds and fish and drinking turtle blood when there was no rain. No fishing gear was on the boat and Ivan suggested he caught turtles and birds with his bare hands. There was a turtle on the boat when it landed at Ebon. Stories of survival in the vast Pacific are not uncommon. In 2006, three Mexicans made international headlines when they were discovered drifting, also in a small fiberglass boat near the Marshall Islands, in the middle of the ocean in their stricken boat, nine months after setting out on a shark-fishing expedition. They survived on a diet of rainwater, raw fish and seabirds, with their hope kept alive by reading the bible. And in 1992, two fishermen from Kiribati were at sea for 177 days before coming ashore in Samoa. According to Fjeldstad, the Marshall Islanders who found Ivan took him to the main island on the atoll, which is so remote there is only one phone line at the local council house and no Internet, to meet Mayor Ione de Brum, who put in a call to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Majuro. Officials at the Foreign Ministry said Friday they were waiting to get more details and for the man to be brought to Majuro. The government airline's only plane that can land at Ebon is currently down for maintenance and is not expected to return to service until Tuesday at the earliest, with officials considering sending a boat to pick up the castaway. "He's staying at the local council house and a family is feeding him," said Fjeldstad, who added that the man had a basic health check and was found to have low blood pressure. But he did not appear to have any life-threatening illness and was able to walk with the aid of men on the island. "We've been giving him a lot of water, and he's gaining strength," said the Norwegian. The Marshall Islands, in the northern Pacific, are home to barely 60,000 people spread over 24 atolls, with most of them standing at an average of just two metres above sea level. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/China DailyNBA Los Angeles Lakers basketball player Kobe Bryant (L) holds a Lenovo smartphone as he poses for photographs with Senior Vice President of Lenovo Group Liu Jun during a promotional event in Beijing, August 11, 2013. Picture taken August 11, 2013. WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. officials are likely to allow China's Lenovo Group to buy IBM's low-end server business and Google Inc's Motorola Mobility handset business if it agrees to concessions aimed at protecting U.S. national security, experts said. Computer maker Lenovo has advantages over other Chinese companies that should help it overcome the mutual suspicion between the United States and China over industrial spying and cybersecurity, such as its track record of successful U.S. acquisitions in the past. And importantly, it is not directly controlled by China's government. Even so, it could be in for a battle over its latest deals with at least one lawmaker expressing concern. Lenovo said on Wednesday it would acquire Motorola Mobility, along with some 2,000 patents, for $2.91 billion. That news came days after an announcement the company would purchase IBM's low-end server unit for $2.3 billion. The deals will be reviewed by the inter-agency Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, or CFIUS, to ensure they do not threaten national security. "We look forward to going through the regulatory process and we're going to work with the regulators with an open and transparent approach," Lenovo spokesman Brion Tingler said. Lenovo has been through the secretive CFIUS process three times before and has won approval each time, according to a source familiar with the process. The first was in 2005, when Lenovo bought IBM's ThinkPad business in a deal that catapulted the company into the global technology big leagues. In that case CFIUS approval came to the dismay of Representative Frank Wolf, a Republican from Virginia and a tough critic of China. Wolf said he discovered after that approval that the State Department had made plans to purchase Lenovo computers. "They were not able to cancel the purchases but made sure that none of them were used for anything," he said. "I just think we have to be careful," said Wolf. Lenovo also went through CFIUS reviews when it bought Stoneware Inc to expand cloud solutions and formed a strategic partnership with EMC Corporation. Both deals were announced in 2012. It is not known what security concessions - if any - CFIUS wrung out of Lenovo in the previous transactions, but typical measures include having a security officer, a security plan or other steps aimed at preventing a foreign government from influencing a company in a way that would put U.S. security at risk, the expert said. CFIUS may also require that only U.S. citizens handle certain products and services or demand that certain products be located only in the United States. Lenovo has already been in touch with CFIUS about its latest U.S. deals, as is typical, said sources familiar with the process. A typical CFIUS analysis will touch on two sides - what threat may be posed by the foreign company involved and what vulnerabilities are exposed by the purchase, said Anne Salladin, a former Treasury official with CFIUS experience. "I do think that both of these deals are likely candidates for mitigation measures," said Salladin, who is now at the law firm Strook &amp; Strook &amp; Lavan LLP. Another former government official with CFIUS experience, Jonathan Gafni, said the review of the Motorola Mobility deal likely would not focus on handsets but on more complicated patents. Lenovo will receive more than 2,000 "patent assets" as part of the transaction, the companies said, although it is not known which ones will change hands. Gafni said regulators would want to give them extra scrutiny. "There are already a ton of Chinese handsets being sold in this country," said Gafni, now with Compass Point Analytics. "I think it could take some time to figure it all out, but I don't see a big problem here." In the end, experts said, Lenovo was likely to win CFIUS approval. "If there was a Chinese company that was well-positioned to see this deal come off, it's Lenovo," said Jim Lewis, a security expert with the think tank Center for Strategic and International Studies. "They've done the dance before and they know what the steps are." CFIUS, which is headed by the Treasury Department, usually takes 30 days to review simple deals, but may take an additional 45 days on more complicated transactions. Of the 23 transactions CFIUS reviewed in 2012, 10 were withdrawn and abandoned, according to the latest CFIUS annual report. One Chinese transaction was blocked in 2012 - the proposed purchase of an Oregon wind farm near a sensitive Navy installation. (Editing by Peter Cooney, Ros Krasny and Stephen Coates) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gus RuelasChewbacca unveils the Star Wars PSP2.BOSTON (Reuters) - A cyber criminal ring targeting small retailers in 11 countries stole data on 49,000 payment cards using a malicious software known as "ChewBacca" before the operation was shut down, according to a cyber research firm. RSA FirstWatch disclosed the attacks on Thursday on its website. It said the firm's researchers uncovered the ring, whose victims included small companies in the United States, Russia, Canada and Australia. They managed to steal details from some 24 million payment card transactions over about two months, according to RSA. The report comes as the Secret Service investigates a major data breach at Target Corp &lt;TGT.N&gt; that resulted in the theft of some 40 million payment card numbers, plus other data from some 70 million customers, along with a smaller breach at luxury department store Neiman Marcus. Arts and crafts retailer Michaels has said it is investigating a possible breach and the FBI has warned retailers to expect more attacks. The findings from RSA show that the recent spate of attacks extend outside the United States. "The end game is to gain credit card information, so the hackers are going to go wherever it is easiest to get that information," said Will Gragido, senior manager with RSA FirstWatch, the threat research arm of RSA Security. He said his firm provided the FBI with data on the "ChewBacca" operation, including the location of a command-and-control server used by the hackers on Wednesday. That server was shut down on Thursday, according to Gragido. An FBI spokeswoman could not be reached for comment. RSA, a subsidiary of storage giant EMC Corp &lt;EMC.N&gt;, declined to identify the victims, which it said it had contacted. RSA said the hackers used a relatively new piece of malicious software known as ChewBacca designed to infect computers such as the point-of-sales systems that process credit card transactions. (Reporting by Jim Finkle; Editing by Dan Grebler) FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Nathan Layne Advertisements are seen along a pedestrians' crossing at Susukino shopping and amusement district in Sapporo, on Japan's northern island of Hokkaido October 9, 2013.TOKYO (Reuters) - A sharp selloff in emerging markets is playing into the hands of those in the Bank of Japan who fret a pick up in exports is already lackluster and so may need extra monetary stimulus sooner than later. Analysts say the plight of emerging economies, some of which are key markets for Japanese goods, will deepen the concern of these pessimists that exports will not rebound enough to offset the economic impact of an increase in a national sales tax in April. That will shift the balance of risks and make policymakers more inclined towards the need for extra stimulus to pre-empt the impact of the tax rise, rather than wait until after it has been implemented to gauge its effect, they say. Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at JPMorgan Securities in Tokyo, said many board members may feel it does not make sense to consider extra stimulus until after the sales tax is implemented and they can see the economic impact. "But if the market turmoil persists and hits global growth, that's enough reason to act in April. A spike in the yen above, say, 100 to the dollar, may also trigger action," Kanno said. The yen is now 102.40 per dollar. The BOJ announced an intense burst of economic stimulus in April 2013 - pledging to double base money via aggressive asset buying to generate consumer inflation of 2 percent in two years. It injects about $70 billion into the economy each month. Since then the economy has shown signs of recovery and data earlier on Friday showed the benchmark measure of inflation had reached 1.3 percent, its highest in more than five years. The economic recovery so far has been driven mainly by domestic demand, but policymakers have expressed disappointment over exports. BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said on Friday the exports pickup had been "quite modest" mainly because growth in emerging economies had been weaker than expected. A rebound in exports is seen as key to sustaining the economy's momentum and to offset the potential impact of the sale tax increase to 8 percent from 5 percent on April 1. That has prompted market speculation the BOJ will add to its stimulus around April, although the BOJ has shrugged off such suggestions by saying the tax's impact will be temporary. Most board members argue that the BOJ can afford to wait until data is available to show the impact of the tax hike on the economy before considering whether extra monetary stimulus is needed. If the emerging market woes were to persist though, this argument would weaken because a rebound in exports is seen as key to maintaining the economy's momentum, analysts said. "There's a chance the U.S. economy may not be able to offset all the impact from the slowdown in emerging economies," one board member warned at a rate review last month, according to minutes of the meeting issued on Monday. The minutes did not reveal the identity of the board member. Pessimists on the board, such as academics Ryuzo Miyao and Sayuri Shirai, have warned that risks were tilted to the downside, pointing to soft export growth and the chance the damage from the sales tax hike may be bigger than expected. Even those members with a neutral view on the economy, such as former commercial banker Koji Ishida, see exports as key in sustaining Japan's recovery, suggesting that the board may lean more toward early stimulus if the emerging markets selloff starts to affect global growth. "The recovery now is spurred by domestic demand such as personal consumption, housing investment and public works spending," Ishida told business leaders in September. "But exports must start to act as driving force." For now, the BOJ is keeping a watchful eye on developments and sees little need to alter its view that Japan is making steady progress toward meeting its price target. But the recent market rout exposed the shaky nature of the projection. "The risk of a contagion is slim," said an official familiar with the BOJ's thinking. "Still, there's no room for complacency." FREE AppDownload
In the US and the UK, the unemployment rate is falling sharply, and it's causing growing angst about when their central banks will be forced to consider a tightening labor market, and what that means for inflation. Of course, there's some debate about the significance of various factors in driving the unemployment rate lower (job creation vs. people leaving the labor force). But check out the newly released chart of Eurozone unemployment. The line to look at is the thin blue line. It's just flatlined. Despite the main Eurozone crisis being long over, there's been no improvement in months. It's just not getting better. The EU 28 line includes non-Eurozone European countries like the UK, which as we noted is seeing a sharp drop in unemployment, and so that explains why that one is dropping. But back to the Eurozone one. Unemployment is at staggering levels and it's not improving. Eurostat Here's a country-by-country breakdown of the unemployment rate. Eurostat Meanwhile, Eurozone inflation just hit its all-time lowest level. Europe is looking more and more like it's in a "Japanese" deflation scenario every day. FREE AppDownload
Repeat after me: The Eurozone's biggest problem is not about breaking up anymore. It's about turning into Japan. It's about deflation. Today we've got more data proving that things economic conditions remain miserable. Unemployment stayed at 12.0%. And inflation just came in at 0.7% for January, down from 0.8% in December, and matching the lowest level measures that was previously hit in October. Here's the summary, via Eurostat: Eurostat FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
WELLINGTON, New Zealand (AP) — New Zealand's exports to China rose 45 percent last year thanks to soaring demand for milk powder, supplanting Australia as New Zealand's top export market for the first time on an annual basis. Figures released Friday by Statistics New Zealand show that in 2013, China imported $8.1 billion worth of New Zealand goods, up from $5.6 billion the previous year. About 40 percent of those imports were of milk powder. Meanwhile, New Zealand's exports to Australia were down 8 percent at $7.5 billion and exports to the U.S. were down 4 percent at $3.3 billion. Exports to South Korea and Singapore grew. The strong demand from China has helped boost New Zealand's economic growth to 3.5 percent, stronger than in most developed nations. New Zealand's central bank said this week it intends to begin raising interest rates soon in order to keep inflation and a heated housing market in check. New Zealand posted a slim trade deficit for the year after exporting a total $39.4 billion worth of goods and importing $39.5 billion. New Zealand imported more goods from China than any other country. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
AmazonThere are three pretty important economic data points coming out today. From Calculated Risk: • At 8:30 AM ET, the Personal Income and Outlays for December. The consensus is for a 0.2% increase in personal income, and for a 0.2% increase in personal spending. And for the Core PCE price index to increase 0.1%.• At 9:45 AM, the Chicago Purchasing Managers Index for January. The consensus is for an increase to 59.5, up from 59.1 in December.• At 9:55 AM, the Reuters/University of Michigan's Consumer sentiment index (final for January). The consensus is for a reading of 81.0, up from the preliminary reading of 80.4, and down from the December reading of 82.5. We'll be covering each of these LIVE. FREE AppDownload
Just passing along a good letter here from the CFA Institute and John Bogle.  This message should be burned into the brain of everyone who participates in the market: “If “active” and “passive” management styles are defined in sensible ways, it must be the case that (1) before costs, the return on the average actively managed dollar will equal the return on the average passively managed dollar and (2) after costs, the return on the average actively managed dollar will be less than the return on the average passively managed dollar. These assertions will hold for any time period. Moreover, they depend only on the laws of addition, subtraction, multiplication and division. Nothing else is required. . . .” John Bogle is one of the good guys in the industry with his head in the right place and his understandings in a smart place.  Although I don’t love the idea of passive vs active (I personally think we’re all varying degrees of active so the idea of a “passive investor” is a little misleading), but the message should be clear – fees can make a huge difference in your overall performance and should be one of the primary factors that go into how you choose a manager…. Read the full letter here. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Thomas Hawk Good morning! The back-and-forth nature of the market these days continues. Yesterday stocks rallied. Today stocks are sliding.  In Europe, Germany is down 0.7%. Italy is off 0.3%. UK stocks are down 0.18%. Japan fell 0.48% and Hong Kong fell 0.62%. US futures are a bit lower. The big events after the bell yesterday were the earnings reports from Amazon. Amazon slipped after hours, while Google is strong. FREE AppDownload
Have you ever been in a casino playing Black Jack, and someone leans across and places a bet on your hand? It’s a disconcerting feeling, but sometimes it feels kind of good that there is another player out there who thinks enough of your style that they will place their trust in you. This concept of piggy backing on other people’s trading has been growing in retail foreign exchange and other retail trading platforms since the inception of the eToro network in the UK in 2007. eToro styles itself as the “world’s leading social investment network”, and with it you can supposedly tap into the wisdom of the crowds to help you make smarter investment decisions. It’s website says there has been 113,332,066 positions opened on its network, and it looks like it is increasing at a rapid rate each day. This is a phenomenon that has taken on even more attraction for traders since twitter has taken off. And there is an active community of traders in the twitterverse discussing trends and trades in markets. Some professional strategists and traders like Peter Esho of Invast Securities and Chris Weston from IG markets do it both as part of their role with their respective firms, and also because the trading community just loves to discuss and share ideas. Traders like Assad Tannous from Asenna Wealth are a great source of trading wisdom and ideas. Others like Chris Becker, a private trader living in the hills behind the Sunshine coast, do it not only for the ideas and discussion, but also to break down the isolation which often comes with trading your own account. Which brings us back to the explosion in social, copy, or mirror trading, as it’s sometimes called, which allows traders who have less experience (or success) to find others who have more experience, a longer track record or more success and copy their trades. In many ways it’s an extension of following people on twitter, as traders follow or “copy” a trader’s actual trades. That is, if the trader they are following buys Aussie dollars and sells yen, then the follower’s account can do the same in the ratio that they have set. Just like Black Jack though, your money is resting on the decisions made by the player. And it is out of your hands until the the trade is closed – you either win, break even or lose. But in a world where retail trading has become easily accessible on your desktop, copy trading on a tablet or mobile is a growing business that brokers and traders want to exploit to mutual gain. Brokers get increased turnover. Those traders being followed get a small fee for the turnover their followers generate, and the follower hopes to get access to a trader who can generate return that they would not be able to generate themselves. Brokers all over the world are getting into the business of copy trading. In Australia my broker, VantageFX (who I write a morning report for), runs FXCopy and I have a follower or two. Sometimes, like January I can be up in the big double digit returns, but at others it can be a hairy ride because my account is a secondary consideration for me at the moment. And while its in the black since inception, I concentrate on other things often — or simply don’t pay attention to the market, which leads to heavy percentage losses from time to time even though the dollar value is small as it’s a tiny account. But that doesn’t mean social trading isn’t a way to democratize trading, and open the door for the future George Soros’s of the world. Indeed, this week the AFR ran a story on Saxo bank – one of the globes best known retail FX and other market brokers offering a copy service. They noted: The new portal aims to bring investors together by publishing the trades of registered users, enabling them to build a track record and alerting their “followers” of new transactions in real time. The founders believe it may even help discover the trading superstars of tomorrow. I prefer to trade my own account, and to make my own mistakes, but for a growing number of traders and brokers out there copy trading is the way of the future. You can read more here Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook and Twitter This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
