The pressure on companies from activist shareholders continues to grow TIM COOK'S nightmare is over, but John Donahoe's has just begun. On February 10th Carl Icahn, the godfather of activist shareholders, ended his campaign to get Mr Cook, the boss of Apple, to return some of its $160 billion cash mountain to shareholders through share buy-backs. Mr Icahn declared victory, although Apple is not handing back as much of its cash as he had wanted. His next target is eBay, which he is pressuring to spin off PayPal, its online-payments business. Mr Donahoe, eBay's boss, has told Mr Icahn to get lost, but surely knows he cannot brush off the pugilistic investor so easily. A visit from an activist shareholder is now a possibility for any publicly traded company: if not the 77-year-old Mr Icahn, then one of the growing army of younger imitators he has inspired. Mr Cook was first put under pressure to "stop hoarding cash" last year by David Einhorn, boss of Greenlight Capital, a hedge fund. Having shaken up Yahoo's management and strategy in 2012, Dan Loeb and his fund, Third Point, have turned their attention to Sony, calling for it to separate its electronics and entertainment arms; to Sotheby's, an auction house they want to repurchase shares; and to Dow Chemical, which they want to shed its petrochemicals business. Nelson Peltz, who has been a shareholder activist almost as long as Mr Icahn, last month joined the board of Mondelez, a snacks business he had targeted. TCI, a London-based fund run by Chris Hohn, has rediscovered its activist mojo after having been badly hurt by the financial crisis. Last year it urged EADS (now Airbus Group) to sell its military-planes business, and took on the management of Japan Tobacco. Steve Ballmer was helped on his way out of Microsoft's top job by ValueAct Capital, run by Mason Morfit. Last month Bill Ackman's Pershing Square made a tasty profit when Suntory acquired Beam (the maker of Jim Beam bourbon), which had been spun out of Fortune Brands as a result of his activism. But Mr Ackman has also demonstrated that activists have no monopoly on wisdom: Ron Johnson, the new boss he lobbied for J.C. Penney to install in 2011, made things worse at the struggling retailer, and lasted just 17 months. Mr Ackman has been at loggerheads with Messrs Icahn and Loeb over Herbalife, a nutritional-supplements business. Mr Ackman has shorted its shares, calling the firm a "pyramid scheme" (a charge Herbalife denies). His rivals have gone long on them. So far, Mr Ackman is out of pocket. The activists' growing influence has many causes, including rule changes that have given shareholders more voting power and have made institutional investors cast their votes more thoughtfully. Social media have made it easier for activists to mount a campaign: Mr Icahn now tweets like a budgie on speed. And, says Bob Monks, a campaigner for shareholder rights, Mr Icahn has had a huge impact by "making it clear to the greediest people in the world that you can make a lot of money out of activism". It is the way these profits are made that is the focus of the activists' critics. Activists usually buy a block of shares, make a public call for change and lobby management and other shareholders to implement it. When they do, the activists sell at a profit. Martin Lipton, a lawyer who has long helped protect incumbent management, not least by inventing the "poison pill", a potent defence against takeovers, argues that activists encourage firms to do things that boost their share price in the short run but harm their long-term performance. This critique has plenty of adherents, in academia, business and government. Yet empirical proof that activists exacerbate short-termism is strangely elusive. Indeed, such evidence as there is suggests the opposite. "The Long-Term Effects of Hedge-Fund Activism", a recent paper by Lucian Bebchuk of Harvard Law School and others, examined the roughly 2,000 interventions at companies by activist funds from 1994 to 2007. Over the five years following an intervention both the share price and the operating performance of the target company improved, on average. The operating performance got stronger towards the end of the five-year period, not weaker. This is the sort of evidence that has convinced Mary Jo White, the chairman of America's Securities and Exchange Commission, to argue in a recent speech that activist shareholders should no longer be automatically viewed negatively. These days, she said, "There is widespread acceptance of many of the policy changes that so-called 'activists' are seeking to effect." A recent article in the Columbia Law Review, "The Agency Costs of Agency Capitalism: Activist Investors and the Revaluation of Governance Rights", argues that the activists have become a vital adjunct to the institutional investors who own most shares, and who are "willing to respond to governance proposals but not to propose them". Activists have thus become "governance intermediaries", who find underperforming firms and offer their managers and institutional shareholders "concrete proposals for business strategy through mechanisms less drastic than takeovers". So it is crucial, the authors argue, to pass reforms that help the activists do their job. Mr Lipton and others are pressing for a rule change that would have the opposite effect, by obliging activists to disclose stakes at a lower threshold (2% of a firm's shares rather than the current 5%) and more quickly (within a day rather than the current ten). That would force them to show their hand before they had built a big enough stake to make a decent profit if and when their proposals succeeded. Boards have an obvious motive to back curbs on troublesome activists. But a better strategy--and one that big firms are increasingly adopting--is to talk to them, consider their ideas and even invite them or their representatives to become directors, as firms from Microsoft to Mondelez have done. If a board's strategy is in fact better than that proposed by the activist, having the debate in public may strengthen the incumbent management, as happened when activists took on firms such as AOL, Target and Clorox. Indra Nooyi, the boss of PepsiCo, chose to work with Ralph Whitworth, a veteran activist who took a stake in the company. By doing so she was able to head off calls for a break-up of the firm (led by Mr Peltz), while still boosting its shares, thereby restoring her authority. Mr Donohoe's encounter with Mr Icahn may prove less nightmarish if he treats his ideas about eBay on their merits rather than dismissing them out of hand. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Chris Keane / APNorth Carolina Gov. Pat McCrory did work at Duke Energy for 28 years ...Did a cozy relationship between Duke Energy, America’s largest electric utility, and politically-connected state regulators in North Carolina contribute to the massive coal ash spill into the Dan River near the Virginia border earlier this month? Judging by a series of federal subpoenas and affidavits, that’s an emerging line of questioning as US attorneys and the Environmental Protection Agency take a tough look at the regulatory environment in the Tar Heel State, and whether regulators went easy on Duke Energy with regards to its inventory of aging and seeping coal ash lagoons that now “threaten the long-term health of the Dan River” and other waterways, according to lawsuits now filed by the state. Court documents refer to a “suspected felony” in the case. “It’s an unusual case: federal authorities scrutinizing not only a company that polluted but also state regulators,” writes reporter Craig Jarvis, in the Raleigh News &amp; Observer. On Feb. 2, some 39,000 heavy metal-laced tons of coal ash spilled out of a holding pond and into the Dan River, which eventually flows into Kerr Lake, a critical reservoir on the Virginia-North Carolina border. The spill created a 75-foot-long “coal ash bar” near the broken pipe, and the US Fish and Wildlife Service says they’ve spotted evidence of the spill 70 miles downstream. The federal investigation comes amid heightened awareness of major inland spills. A toxic mix of chemicals bled into West Virginia’s Elk River in early January, causing officials to warn residents against even washing their hands in tap water. The US Fish and Wildlife Service says streams have become more, not less, pristine, over the last decade, but recent spills and questions about regulatory priorities have raised awareness that such water quality gains can be easily lost. The North Carolina Department of Energy and Natural Resources, which regulates power plants in the state, have said they’ve done nothing wrong, and that they are actively pursuing fixes and fines from Duke. The company meanwhile says it’s cooperating fully with the federal probe. “We feel like we’ve been forthright and prompt and transparent on this, and have done everything we could to accelerate the recovery process,” Duke spokesman Tom Williams told North Carolina newspapers last week. But environmental groups say they’ve had to push the energy and resources agency numerous times to take action against Duke Power’s 14 coal ash holdings, some of which are now seeping into state waterways. Just last week, the company was forced to cap another leaking pipe that spilled more coal ash into the Dan River. In at least three cases, state regulators didn’t take action against Duke until environmental groups threatened to sue. Environmental regulations have long been seen as more lax in Southern states, where business advocacy sometimes leads to laissez-faire views on environmental costs of doing business, often when profit expectations squeeze expensive environmental protection or remediation requirements. In that light, the federal probe into whether the company and regulators acted responsibly now “raises the stakes considerably,” Amy Adams of the conservation group Appalachian Voices told the Charlotte Observer. Also notable is that the investigation is being led by US Attorney Thomas Walker, who has made a priority of prosecuting criminal cases of environmental pollution. Court documents do not make it clear whether Walker was investigating the relationship between Duke and state regulators before the spill. Environmental groups allege Duke Power, founded by one of the state’s most powerful families, has long been given broad discretion by state regulators, even when there’s evidence of problems. Piquing the federal interest is that the current chief of the state regulatory agency was appointed by Gov. Pat McCrory, who worked for Duke for 28 years. Specifically, according to court records, federal prosecutors want detailed inspection records for the coal ash sites, as well as copies of all enforcement actions against those sites. More critically, investigators are trying to understand the connections between Duke Power officials and dozens of state regulators, and whether any graft ever took place. This week, Gov. McCrory, a Republican and former mayor of the Southern banking center of Charlotte, briefly raised hopes among environmental groups when he told an audience that Duke should be forced to move the coal ash storage sites out of harm’s way, which is what environmental groups ultimately want. Later in the day Mr. McCrory’s office said the governor meant that moving the sites – an extremely expensive proposition – was merely “one option” for Duke. RECOMMENDED: US energy in five maps This story was originally published by&nbsp;The Christian Science Monitor. FREE AppDownload
I actually think it is a bubble – but a bubble that does not need to “burst” so to speak; one that can mature and begin to justify itself over the coming decade. With aging populations accelerating across Europe, Japan, China and the US all at once – combined with the burgeoning middle class and its coming gentrification – the market for therapies and drugs is going into overdrive. This is probably why biotech stocks are selling at a 60% premium to the S&amp;P 500 – double their historical premium. The question, as always, remains the same – is it different this time? What has changed as are these changes permanent. Do these changes demand us to alter our way of thinking? Usually the answer is no, but sometimes it’s yes. Here’s a very smart young blogger I’ve known for a few years, Elliot Turner, with his vociferous defense of the space and its current excesses (emphasis mine)… The problem for biotech is that its impact is very intangible compared to the Smartphones we all carry in our pockets everywhere. Genomics has greatly accelerated the process and efficiency of drug discovery. The results are evident, though people don’t see or feel it. In 2012 new drug approvals by the FDA hit a sixteen year high. Although 2013 did not see a new high in approvals, it did see the largest aggregate market opportunity for new approvals. I will oversimplify to make the point very clear: let’s say the average drug development timeframe was 10 years and has now accelerated to 5 years. Drug development inherently becomes worth more money if the time to earning first cash flows is cut in half. If you’re an investor or an enthusiast, you should read this: BIOTECH: POPPING THE ALLEGATIONS OF A BUBBLE (Compounding My Interests) FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Rahmat GulChinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi speaks as Afghanistan's Foreign Minister Zarar Ahmad Osmani looks on during a news conference in Kabul. KABUL (Reuters) - China urged its neighbor Afghanistan on Saturday to embrace an inclusive political solution to its long-running conflict during a rare visit by a top Chinese official, who said the very security of his own country's western regions depended on peace. Foreign Minister Wang Yi was due to meet President Hamid Karzai during his visit, which coincides with preparations by U.S. and allied troops to draw down their forces after more than 12 years of fighting Taliban extremists. China, which shares a short border with Afghanistan in the country's mountainous northeastern corridor, has become increasingly concerned about security in its western region of Xinjiang, where it says Muslim extremists receive help from militants in neighboring countries. "The peace and stability of this country has an impact on the security of western China, and more importantly, it affects the tranquility and development of the entire region," Wang told a news conference alongside his Afghan counterpart, Zarar Ahmad Osmani. "We hope to see a broad-based and inclusive political reconciliation in Afghanistan as soon as possible, and China will play a constructive role to facilitate that...A divided country will have no future." Wang last visited Kabul in early 2002 when he was vice foreign minister and reopened China's embassy after the fall of the Islamist Taliban government. His visit coincides with a time of transition for Afghanistan, ahead of both the year-end deadline for the pull-out of foreign troops and an April presidential election. Eleven candidates, representing different ethnic, tribal and religious groups, are competing to replace Karzai, who has served two terms as Afghanistan's elected president. All pledge to end decades of civil war and insurgent conflict. China has been stepping up its engagement with other regional players in recent months in Afghanistan, Beijing-based diplomats say, mainly out of concern that the NATO-led force's pullout may spawn instability that could spill into Xinjiang. "They're taking a lot of initiative," said a Beijing-based diplomat who follows China's relations with Afghanistan, speaking on condition of anonymity. "They're worried about what will happen in Xinjiang." Plans by the United States and its allies to keep a small force in Afghanistan to bolster Afghan forces against the Taliban have run up against Karzai's refusal to sign an accord authorizing the post-2014 foreign troop presence. The Taliban and its Pakistan-based leadership show no signs of renouncing their guerrilla campaign to regain control of Afghanistan. Karzai's government has had little success pursuing peace talks with the Taliban to produce a political solution. Chinese President Xi Jinping met Karzai on the sidelines of this month's Sochi Winter Olympics, where Xi pledged help for reconstruction and urged Kabul to create a "safe environment for bilateral cooperation," according to Chinese state media. Xi said China wanted greater cooperation to fight extremism, saying that "the fate of Afghanistan will be more closely linked with that of the region after 2014". Xinjiang, with its large Muslim minority, has risen up China's domestic security agenda since a vehicle ploughed into tourists on Beijing's Tiananmen Square last October, killing three people in the car and two bystanders. Authorities blamed the incident on extremists from the province. More than 100 people, including several policemen, have been killed in violence in Xinjiang since last April, according to state media reports. But foreign experts have doubted the extent of assistance from overseas militants to extremists in Xinjiang, as alleged by Beijing. Wang's visit may also underscore Afghanistan's economic potential, despite the insecurity that has deterred foreign investment. China is keen to invest in Afghan resource deposits worth as much as $1 trillion, based on U.S. Pentagon estimates. (Additional reporting by Ben Blanchard in Beijing and Adam Jourdan in Shanghai; Writing by Missy Ryan; Editing by Ron Popeski) FREE AppDownload
Hasan Jamali / AP RIYADH (Reuters) - Saudi Interior Minister Mohammed bin Nayef, perhaps the most powerful younger prince in the ruling al-Saud family, is shaping Riyadh's new emphasis on protecting the kingdom from a fresh wave of Islamist militancy inspired by the war in Syria. The United States pulled out the stops for him when he visited Washington last week to prepare for President Barack Obama's fence-mending trip to Riyadh next month. Secretary of State John Kerry, National Security Adviser Susan Rice, Central Intelligence Agency chief John Brennan, Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson, Federal Bureau of Investigation director James Comey and National Security Agency director Keith Alexander all sat down with the 54-year-old, a veteran of Saudi Arabia's fight against al Qaeda. Prince Mohammed seems likely to be a central figure in the world's top oil exporter for decades to come. Many Saudis say he is a strong candidate to become king one day. "He's now playing not only the role of Interior Minister, but also that of a senior diplomat and adviser to the king," said Robert Jordan, U.S. ambassador to Riyadh from 2001-03. "He is probably someone destined for even greater responsibilities in Saudi Arabia in due course," he said. In recent weeks Prince Mohammed's influence has become more apparent in Saudi policy on Syria, where the kingdom's rulers fear their support for rebels battling President Bashar al-Assad may inadvertently revitalize radicalism at home. Officials in Riyadh have noticed an increase both in Saudi jihadis leaving for Syria and in online chatter supporting Islamist militancy. This month King Abdullah decreed prison terms of 3-20 years on Saudis who go abroad to fight. Saudi Arabia's goal of toppling Assad, an ally of its regional rival Iran, is unchanged, but it is refocusing on countering militancy, and is trying to ease differences on Syria with Washington, say Saudi and diplomatic sources in the Gulf. So Prince Mohammed, who has built trust with U.S. security officials over a decade of cooperation against al Qaeda in Saudi Arabia and Yemen, is playing a bigger role. "He has a lot of credibility," said a diplomatic source in the Gulf. "The fact that he is going to Washington now to say terrorism is a shared concern is a smart message." Obama's visit to Riyadh is aimed at smoothing three years of tensions between the two historic allies over policy on Syria, Iran and Egypt. Saudi Arabia still hopes to convince the United States to adopt a more muscular approach on Syria that would counter both Assad and the rebel groups closest to al Qaeda. As the man behind Saudi efforts to crush an al Qaeda uprising last decade waged by veterans of wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, Prince Mohammed is acutely aware of the dangers posed by Saudi militants who have fought overseas. That campaign was so successful that al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula sent an assassin to kill the prince in 2009, posing as a would-be defector before detonating a bomb hidden in his clothes. Prince Mohammed narrowly survived that attack and was named interior minister in November 2012, inheriting a role held by his hardline father, the late Crown Prince Nayef, for 37 years. GENERATIONAL CHANGE The al-Saud family is now slowly transferring power to a younger generation, although it will probably be a decade or so before the interior minister or one of his cousins becomes king. Unlike in European monarchies, the Saudi succession does not move from father to eldest son, but down a line of sons of the state's founder, King Abdulaziz, of whom only a few remain. In a family that prizes experience and seniority, Prince Mohammed is already well placed, running a ministry that gives him a say in most big government issues and puts him in charge of the regional governors, who are all princes themselves. It will be his generation that will have to tackle major challenges looming for Saudi Arabia, such as overhauling an unsustainable economy built on state handouts while managing social and political reform in a deeply conservative society. While his views on such issues may prove pivotal to the kingdom's future, Prince Mohammed keeps them close to his chest, according to people who have spoken with him. "Everybody thinks he is a good friend. Both liberals and conservatives will say 'I sat with Mohammed bin Nayef'. He cannot be labeled as one thing or another," said Jamal Khashoggi, head of a TV news channel owned by a Saudi prince. One clue to his approach lies in a dingy suburb of eastern Riyadh, behind high sandstone walls topped with razor wire: the Prince Mohammed bin Nayef Centre of Counseling and Care. Better known abroad as Saudi Arabia's controversial rehabilitation program for militants, the center is the only institution named for Prince Mohammed in a country where senior royals wear their attachment to favored causes with pride. It blends Western techniques such as psychiatry with lectures by clerics from the kingdom's official Wahhabi school of Sunni Islam, who do not dispute the virtues of waging jihad, but who insist it is the prerogative of the state. "He understands the connection between education, faulty religious teaching and extremism," said Jordan, the former ambassador, who said he spent many nights sitting up with Prince Mohammed discussing such issues after the September 11, 2001, attacks on the United States, in which 15 Saudis took part. "His approach was to counter the source of those fraudulent and erroneous interpretations and to explain, using Koranic principles, the way extremists were twisting things," he said. By showing mercy to militants, he was also working to show Saudis that the government was not the dictatorship al Qaeda had painted it as. The program has not been an undiluted success, with some of its alumni fleeing to Yemen to resume the struggle. SECURITY APPROACH For all his close connections with the West, liberal activists see Prince Mohammed's security-focused approach as a danger to civil liberties, and point to his ministry's record of locking up dissidents for criticizing the ruling family. Since he became interior minister 15 months ago, several prominent dissidents have been jailed. His critics see him less as the Western-educated fan of Hollywood action films described by foreign officials, and more as the heir to a steely security apparatus built up by his conservative father Prince Nayef, who was interior minister from 1975 until his sudden death in 2012. "He has been in the role of dealing with terrorism violence for almost all his political life. He doesn't strike me as someone who would be able to listen to a reform agenda," said Madawi al-Rasheed, a critic of the al-Saud family and author of A History of Saudi Arabia. But Mustafa Alani, a Gulf-based security analyst who has worked closely with the Saudi Interior Ministry and knows Prince Mohammed, disputed this view, describing him as "one of those who supports reform: ready to listen, and who thinks that people have the right to express their opinion". However, as interior minister, the prince was bound to uphold Saudi laws banning protests or overt criticism of senior royals and clerics, Alani said, adding: "You're talking about the most sensitive job in Saudi Arabia. It controls everything from criminal issues to political security. To manage this and still enjoy a degree of popularity and trust is not easy." (Reporting by Angus McDowall; Editing by Alistair Lyon) FREE AppDownload
Lockheed MartinA big Army deal involving Lockheed Martin's unmanned K-MAX helicopters points to the future. HUNTSVILLE, Alabama (Reuters) - Building missiles used to be back-breaking, strenuous work, and dangerous too, given the high level of explosives involved. But U.S. weapons maker Raytheon Co has revolutionized that process at a sprawling, classified facility in Huntsville, Alabama, where automated transporters ferry missile parts to gleaming assembly stations, and even tuck themselves away for charging when their batteries run low. The $75 million facility at the U.S. military's Redstone Arsenal reflects a new spirit of innovation pulsing through the U.S. defense industry, which is scrambling to maintain revenues despite declining military budgets after the end of the war in Iraq and the withdrawal of forces from Afghanistan. "This is what we call the 'factory of the future'," said Randy Stevenson, director of Raytheon's Weapon Integration Center. "We're using a lot of automation and intelligence and other innovative aspects of doing business that we gathered from other industries," including the automotive business. Stevenson said the factory is already delivering better production time, quality and safety, but those metrics will improve as the factory matures. "This horse is at a trot, but we're going to come to a gallop in another year or so," he told Reuters during a rare media tour of the plant. Leanne Caret, who heads Boeing Co's vertical lift programs, said changing times called for different approaches. "We're really taking a step back and thinking about how do we make innovation part of every employee's day-to-day decision-making," Caret told Reuters during a conference hosted by the Association of the U.S. Army conference. She said Boeing was setting up innovation centers across the country to encourage greater collaboration and "out-of-the-box" thinking. Caret said she was confident that a teaming agreement between Boeing and United Technologies Corp's Sikorsky Aircraft for early work on a next-generation helicopter would help the companies disprove the conventional wisdom that the cost of military aircraft will continue to grow exponentially. "We are going to be able to break the price curve," she said. "We're very conscious of the realities. It's more than acquisition costs. It's as much about developing a weapons system that you build, deploy and sustain for the long term." Thinking differently, for instance, has allowed Boeing to leverage the expertise of its commercial airplane testers to keep testing of its military aircraft on schedule and cost. Top U.S. Army officials this week underscored the need for continued spending by industry and government on science and technology, highlighting work on new materials, alternative energy sources, robotics and even better meals for soldiers. "We're still investing in new capabilities," top Army arms buyer Heidi Shyu told executives, reminding them that many of today's weapons systems got their start during a downturn in defense spending after the Vietnam War. Dan Bailey, who heads the Pentagon's effort to develop a new rotary aircraft, said top U.S. defense officials continued to support the program despite declining budgets, mindful of the need to maintain or rebuild the defense industry's base of engineering and design talent. He said one critical element was ensuring that the aircraft had computer systems that were able to integrate new technology developments as they emerged, much like a smart phone can accommodate a continuous stream of new applications or "apps." "These trucks will be out there for another century. We need to put in place an architecture that's robust, that's enduring and flexible," Bailey said. Unmanned ground, sea and air systems also provide fertile ground for innovation. Lockheed Martin Corp this week said it had been selected by the U.S. Army Robotics Technology Consortium to use one of its unmanned K-MAX cargo helicopters to transport an unmanned ground vehicle into an "area of interest" deemed too risky for humans and then use on-board sensors to stream data and carry out operations. Joe Zinecker, head of combat maneuver systems at Lockheed's missile division, said the deal was an industry first. "We believe this demonstration could lead to expanded missions such as remote sensing and monitoring of suspected chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and explosive threats or events," he said. (Reporting by Andrea Shalal; Editing by James Dalgleish) FREE AppDownload
 Genya Savilov/AFP  Yulia Tymoshenko, Ukraine's ex-premier freed Saturday as the tide turned against her nemesis President Viktor Yanukovych, is a steely and telegenic figure hailed by the opposition -- but also a polarising one dogged by suspicions of personal enrichment and opportunism. After Ukraine's parliament on Saturday abandoned Yanukovych and ordered her release from a seven-year sentence for "abuse of power" she had been serving since 2011, Tymoshenko made it clear she would remain Yanukovych's arch-foe in word and deed, hounding him as she rode the opposition's triumph. "The dictatorship has fallen," she said in a statement upon her release. Her many supporters see her as an alternative to Yanukovych, rallying to her prominent pro-European stance in a country torn between rival allegiances to Moscow and the West. But for her detractors, Tymoshenko, 53, is an unscrupulous political opportunist with no fixed ideas who became enormously rich in the corruption-stained 1990s and deserved what she got when she was sent to prison. A slender blonde known for wearing her long hair in an elaborately braided crown, Tymoshenko's looks belie an unbending temperament that has been compared to that of former British prime minister Margaret Thatcher -- one of her heroines. Known at home as the "Iron Lady", after Thatcher, or simply by the Ukrainian word for "she" -- "vona" -- Tymoshenko was a leader of the 2004 Orange Revolution that forced the annulment of elections initially awarded to Yanukovych. She challenged Yanukovych in a bitterly contested 2010 presidential election, losing in a run-off and then finding herself the target of a string of criminal investigations she claimed were aimed at eliminating her from politics. She was first arrested in August 2011, then sentenced to seven years in October that year on controversial charges of abusing her power in a 2009 gas deal signed with Russia during her premiership. Her jailing, which Tymoshenko argued was the result of a vendetta pursued by Yanukovych and his "family" of close relatives and oligarchs, prompted anger in the West and a crisis in Ukraine's relations with the European Union. - Guiding protests from prison - Seeking to burnish her credentials as Ukraine's number one champion of EU integration, Tymoshenko said her own fate should not stand in the way of Kiev signing an Association Agreement with the bloc. When Yanukovych unexpectedly snubbed the deal on November 21 in favour of closer ties with Russia, members of her Batkivshchyna (Fatherland) party were at the heart of street protests that erupted and demands for her release remained vocal. Over the next three months, pro-European demonstrators turned Kiev's iconic Independence Square into a battle zone, where fierce clashes between protesters and police have left dozens dead this week. Even from her detention in a prison hospital -- where she was moved due to serious back problems -- Tymoshenko has played a role in the protests, urging the opposition to stay strong and oust her nemesis. "The only subject of negotiation with Yanukovych is the conditions of his departure," she said in a recent interview with weekly Dzerkalo Tyzhnia. As Yanukovych's regime appeared close to collapse after a peace deal was reached on Friday, Tymoshenko was back in the spotlight. On Saturday, parliament overwhelmingly voted for her to be immediately released and two of her close allies were named interim interior minister and speaker of the parliament. Analysts say Tymoshenko remains a political force to be reckoned with, though she may now have been surpassed by opposition leaders such as former heavyweight boxing champion Vitali Klitschko and ally Arseniy Yatsenyuk, who spearheaded the Independence Square protests. Tymoshenko was born in the industrial city of Dnipropetrovsk in central Ukraine and in her early career was aligned with power brokers from that region rather than the Donetsk stronghold of Yanukovych. After rising to prominence as head of a gas utility, she became a deputy prime minister under the presidency of Leonid Kuchma in 1999, but was fired in 2001 after falling out with him. She was briefly imprisoned then on gas smuggling charges that were later quashed. Her husband Olexander has now taken asylum in the Czech Republic. But their British-educated daughter Yevgenia, who married and then separated from a British heavy rock singer, has become one of the greatest defenders of her mother, with whom she bears a striking resemblance. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
WSJ/ScreenshotWhatsApp co-founder Jan KoumThe American Dream is alive and well. Facebook's recent announcement that it would buy messaging app WhatsApp for a staggering $19 billion minted new billionaires, including co-founder and CEO Jan Koum who was once dirt poor. Koum's family immigrated to the U.S. from Ukraine two decades ago and lived on food stamps. Today, he's worth an estimated $6.8 billion. All from humble beginnings, these 16 people not only climbed to the top of their industries but also became some of the richest people in the world. These rags-to-riches stories remind us that through determination, grit, and a bit of luck anyone can overcome their circumstances and achieve extraordinary success. FREE AppDownload
Two pieces of business news announced this week provide a convenient frame through which to view our dysfunctional and distorted economy.  The first (which has attracted tremendous attention), is Facebook's blockbuster $19 billion acquisition of instant messaging provider WhatsApp. The second (which few have noticed) is the horrific earnings report issued by Texas-based retail chain Conn's. While these two developments don't seem to have much in common, together they shed some very unflattering light on where we stand economically. Given the size and extravagance of the Facebook deal, it may go down as one of those transactions that define an era (think AOL and Time Warner). Facebook paid $19 billion for a company with just 55 employees, little name recognition, negligible revenues, and little prospects to earn much in the future. For the same money the company could have bought American Airlines and Dunkin' Donuts, and still have had $2 billion left over for R&amp;D. Alternatively they could have used the money to lock in more than $1 billion in annual revenue through an acquisition of any one of the numerous large cap oil producing partnerships. Instead they chose a company that is in the business of giving away a valuable service for free. Come again? Mark Zuckerberg, the owner of Facebook, is not your typical corporate CEO. Through a combination of technological smarts, timing, luck, and questionable business ethics, he became a billionaire before most of us bought our first cars. And in the years since social media became the buzzword of the business world, Wall Street has been falling over backward to funnel money into the hot sector. As a result, it may be that Zuckerberg looks at real money the way the rest of us look at Monopoly money. It also helps that a large portion of the acquisition is made with Facebook stock, which is also of dubious value. But even given this highly distorted perspective, it's still hard to figure out why Facebook would pay the highest price ever paid for a company per employee - $345 million (more than four  times the old record of $77 million per employee, set last year when Facebook bought Instagram). The popular talking point is that the WhatsApp has gained users (450 million) faster than any other social media site in history, faster even than Facebook itself. Based on its rate of growth, the $42 per user acquisition cost does not seem so outrageous. But WhatsApp gained its users by giving away a service (text messaging) for which cellular carriers charge up to $10 or $20 per month. It's very easy to get customers when you don't charge them, it's much harder to keep them when you do. Boosters of the deal expect that WhatsApp will be able to charge customers after the initial 12-month free trial period ends (it now charges 99 cents per year after the first year). Based on this model, the firm had revenues of $20 million last year. But what happens if another provider comes in and offers it for free? After all, the technology does not seem to be that hard to replicate. Google has developed a similar application. More importantly, no one seems to be projecting what the cellular carriers may do to protect their texting cash cows. WhatsApp gives away what AT&amp;T and Verizon offer as an a la carte texting service. As these carriers continue to lose this business we can expect they will simply no longer offer texting as an a la carte option. Instead it will likely be bundled with voice and data at a price that recoups their lost profits. If texting comes free with cell service, a company giving it away will no longer have value. People will still need cellular service to send mobile texts, so unless Facebook acquires its own telecom provider, it can easily be sidelined from any revenue the service may generate. Some say that texting revenue is unimportant, and that the real value comes from the new user base.  But how many of the 450 million users it just acquired don't already have Facebook accounts? And besides, Facebook itself hasn't really figured out how to fully monetize the users it already has. In other words, it is very difficult to see how this mammoth investment will be profitable. From my perspective, the transaction reflects the inflated nature of our financial bubble. The Fed has been pumping money into the financial sector through its continuous QE programs. The money has pushed up the value of speculative stocks, even while the real economy has stagnated. With few real investments to fund, the money is plowed right back into the speculative mill. We are simply witnessing a replay of the dot com bubble of the late 1990's. But this time it isn't different. In another replay of that spectacular crash fourteen years ago, the appliance and furniture retailer Conn's has just showed the limits of a business built on vendor financing. In the late 1990's telecom equipment companies almost went bankrupt after selling gear to dot com start-ups on credit. For a while, these "sales" made growth and profits look great, but when the dot coms went bust, the equipment makers bled. Conn's makes its money by selling TVs and couches on credit to Americans who have difficulty scraping up funds for cash purchases. For a while, this approach can juice sales. Not surprisingly, Conn's stock soared more than 1500% between the beginning of 2011 and the end of 2013. These financing options are part of the reason why Conn's was able to keep up the appearance of health even while rivals like Best Buy faltered in 2013. But if people stop paying, the losses mount. This is what is happening to Conn's. The low and middle-income American consumers that form the company's customer base just don't have the ability to pay off their debt. The disappointing repayment data in the earnings report sent the stock down 43% in one day. In essence, Conn's customers are just stand-ins for the country at large. In just about every way imaginable, America has borrowed beyond its ability to repay. Meanwhile our foreign creditors continue to provide vendor financing so that we can buy what we can't really afford. So thanks for the metaphors Wall Street. Too bad most economists can't read the tea-leaves. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported License. Please feel free to repost with proper attribution and all links included. Read more posts on Euro Pacific Capital » FREE AppDownload
The Monty Hall Problem is a famous probability problem named for the original host of “Let’s Make A Deal." The controversy began in 1990 when Marilyn vos Savant posed the question in her column. The Monty Hall Problem: A contestant on a game show is asked to choose between three doors, behind one of which is a brand new car. Then the host, who knows where the car is hidden, opens one of the other doors where there is no car. The host then asks the contestant if they would like to stay with their original door or switch to the other unopened door. Should the contestant stay or switch? Marilyn vos Savant said that the contestant should always switch doors to increase their odds of winning. This counterintuitive solution created a massive debate. Vos Savant received about 10,000 letters from readers, including many Ph.D.s, telling her she was mistaken. Many argued that after the host opens one of the doors each remaining door has a 1/2 chance of hiding the car, in which case it should not matter if you switch or stay. But vos Savant was right. When the host opens one of the doors he provides additional information. The door that he opens changes based on where the car is and which door the contestant chooses. Contestants who switch doors increase their chances of winning from 1/3 to 2/3. See the step-by-step explanation in the video. Produced by Sara Silverstein and Matt Johnston. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
"Margin Call"/screenshotOver a few beers after work one spring evening, two junior Goldman Sachs employees started contemplating the best ways to kill themselves. “If the goal is, like, how do I inflict maximum psychological damage, then I think just going up to your desk and blowing your brains out in the middle of the day would be the best,” said Jeremy Miller-Reed, 23. “Nah,” said Samson White, 22. “You know what would happen? All the other analysts would get an e-mail from the associates saying, ‘Can you guys clean this up?’ And then everyone would go back to work.” Jeremy and Samson — I’ve change their names to protect their anonymity — were first-year analysts at Goldman. They’d arrived from their Ivy League campuses less than a year before, fresh-faced and idealistic. Jeremy had gotten placed in commodities, and Samson had made a home in the firm’s mortgage division. Good friends since their summer internships the year before, they’d been excited, at first, to join the ranks and get to work making money. But quickly, their enthusiasm had been buried underneath massive piles of work, grueling hours, and unforgiving bosses. In one particularly bleak moment, they’d started calling Goldman’s downtown headquarters “Azkaban,” after the prison in the Harry Potter series where inmates’ souls are sucked from their bodies. For my new book, Young Money: Inside the Hidden World of Wall Street’s Post-Crash Recruits, I spent three years shadowing eight young Wall Street workers, including Jeremy and Samson. Given the rollicking depictions of finance life we see in movies like The Wolf of Wall Street, and the fact that these jobs are extremely well-paid — first-year investment bankers make anywhere from $90,000 to $140,000, including year-end bonuses — you might think that my eight banker informants were living the good life. But in three years, hardly an interview went by without a young banker confessing his or her struggles with depression and health problems, expressing a desire to quit, or simply complaining about how working in finance was ruining the pleasures of normal life. Why are young bankers so uniformly miserable? After spending many, many hours in their company, I think at least three factors explain why Wall Street is a singularly unpleasant place for young people to work. Wall Street is notorious for the long hours it imposes on its worker bees. (One young banker bragged to me about working the “banker 9-to-5,” defined as 9 a.m. until 5 a.m. the next day.) But lots of professions — law and medicine, to name just two — work their underlings hard. What makes banking different is that the work can arrive at any moment, unannounced and requiring immediate attention. If a client needs a PowerPoint presentation at 4 a.m. on Christmas morning, a junior banker will have to wake up and get to the office. What this means, in practice, is that young bankers live in a state of perpetual anxiety, and advance planning becomes impossible. Boyfriends and girlfriends get upset about broken dinner plans, friends and family members become estranged, and phones function as third limbs. This unpredictability, combined with the sheer number of hours involved, takes a toll. A recent academic study of young bankers by a University of Southern California business school professor named Alexandra Michel underscored the vital, even bodily, nature of the transformation that is taking place during a banker’s first years. Michel wrote: During years 1–3, bankers construed their bodies as objects that the mind controls. They worked long hours, neglected family and hobbies, and fought their [bodies’] needs in order to enhance productivity. They suppressed the need for prolonged sleep, taking “naps at 11 p.m. and then again at 1, 3, and 4.” When I asked, “Aren’t you worried that this will affect your health?” most responded like this Bank A associate: “For the next few years, work has priority. I’ll worry about my health then.” To my question, “What if you do irreversible damage?” many answered, ‘‘I am willing to take that risk.” Recently, Wall Street banks have tried to ease up on young workers by, in many cases, giving them the weekends off. But will the new rules really mean a lighter workload? Or will the weekdays become even more painful to make up for missed Saturdays? All eight of the young bankers I followed entered the financial industry after the crash of 2008 and saw a wildly different scene than they’d imagined as college students. Thousands of bankers were being laid off, firms were chopping off entire divisions, and pay for everyone had come down to levels that, while still lucrative by any real-world measure, were far lower than they’d been before the crash. For young Wall Street bankers, who often get themselves through tough stretches by imagining their year-end bonuses arriving, the post-crash uncertainty was destabilizing. Once, it had been relatively certain that a young banker or trader who did well would earn much more with each passing year, and would eventually become a millionaire, probably before his or her 30th birthday. But after 2008, the golden pathway began to splinter. New regulation meant to prevent another financial crisis made banks less profitable, and the struggling markets meant that even young bankers — who had historically been immune from layoffs during downturns, so cheap was their labor compared to that of senior bankers — were at risk of losing it all.  One Goldman Sachs analyst explained to me the effect the layoffs and cost-cuts had on the psyches of the sector’s youth. “You’re working with this constant fear,” he said. “You go to this bulletproof firm, it gives you a ton of options, and it’s really self-validating. And then all of the sudden, you have no options, you’re not getting paid nearly as much as you thought, and you might get fired. And then you start thinking, Well, shit, I could be halfway through law school, and instead I’m in New York dicking around doing models and bottles, and at the end of it I won’t even have that much to show for it.” The markets have since recovered, as has profitability at some of the Wall Street firms damaged during the crisis. But young Wall Street hasn’t regained its sense of security. It might take a while. It might sound strange, but many young people come to Wall Street expecting to make the world a better place. This is partly the fault of recruiters, who tempt college juniors and seniors with promises of “real-world responsibility” and rhapsodies about socially responsible investing. But it’s also wishful thinking on the recruits’ part. Jeremy, for instance, had arrived at Goldman thinking that his specific job — trading commodities derivatives — could make the world a teensy bit better by allowing large companies to hedge their costs, and pass savings along to customers. But one day, his boss pulled him aside and told him that, in effect, he’d been naïve. “We’re not here to save the world,” the boss said. “We exist to make money.” The British economist Roger Bootle has written about the difference between “creative” and “distributive” work. Creative work, Bootle says, is work that brings something new into the world that adds to the total available to everyone (a doctor treating patients, an artist making sculptures). Distributive work, on the other hand, only carries the possibility of beating out competitors and winning a bigger share of a fixed-size market. Bootle explains that although many jobs in modern society consist of distributive work, there is something intrinsically happier about a society that skews in favor of the creative. “There are some people who may derive active delight from the knowledge that their working life is devoted to making sure that someone else loses, but most people do not function that way,” he writes. “They like to have a sense of worth, and that sense usually comes from the belief that they are contributing to society.” During my interviews with young bankers, I heard a lot of them express this exact sentiment. They wanted to do something, make something, add something to the world, instead of simply serving as well-paid financial intermediaries at giant investment banks. It doesn’t hurt that creative jobs — including, but not limited to, jobs with Silicon Valley tech companies — are now considered sexier and more socially acceptable than Wall Street jobs, which still carry the stigma of the financial crisis. At one point, during the Occupy Wall Street protests, Jeremy told me that he had begun camouflaging his Goldman affiliation in public. “I lie whenever I go out now,” he told me. “I tell people I’m a consultant, a lawyer, whatever — anything but a Wall Street guy.” I won’t spoil the end for you — you’ll have to read the book to find out how Jeremy and Samson ended up coping with their dissatisfaction — but suffice it to say that they both found creative work that satisfied their desire to make a difference while still providing financial stability and drawing upon their well-honed business skills. For them, and for countless other young Wall Streeters in the post-crash era, the promise of a six-figure paycheck alone just doesn’t cut it anymore. FREE AppDownload
Key economic data points like employment, housing, and retail sales have been deteriorating in the U.S. over the past two or three months. The big question on the minds of market participants is how much of the weakness is due to unseasonally harsh winter weather, and how much of a boost in economic activity the U.S. will see once the weather abates. In a report discussing the effects of recent weather conditions on economic activity, Goldman Sachs economist David Mericle estimates that a bit more than half of the slowdown has been caused by transitory weather-related factors. He expects GDP to take a 0.5 percentage point hit in the first quarter, but expects a subsequent 0.5-0.75 percentage point boost in Q2. NOAA, Goldman Sachs Global Investment ResearchExhibit 1 shows just how bad this winter has been relative to past years. A measure of population-weighted heating degree days was well above average in January and February. So too has the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's NESIS Snow Score, which combines meteorological measurements with population information to give an indication of a storm's societal impacts. "Snowstorms have been more frequent than usual: of the 52 snowstorms ranked as high-impact on the NESIS scale since 1956, five have occurred this winter," writes Mericle in the report. "And as with temperatures, snow too has been most severe in February." In the report, Mericle explains how he quantifies the weather's economic effect this winter in terms of Goldman's proprietary Current Activity Indicator (a proxy for economic growth) and discusses his findings: We attempt to quantify the impact of recent adverse weather using a bottom-up estimate of the hit to our CAI. We start by building simple models for each of the CAI’s 25 components. Each model explains the growth rate of a given indicator using the recent trend of the dependent variable, the deviation of heating degree days from seasonal norms during the current and last three months, and the deviation of the cumulative NESIS score from seasonal norms during the current and last three months. We drop snowfall from models in which it does not have a statistically significant effect. Finally, we impose the restriction on each model that the long-run impact of weather deviations on the level of activity must eventually be zero. We confirm our finding from earlier research that colder weather has a negative and statistically significant impact on most major indicators, and we also find a statistically significant snowstorm effect on some. We find that weather tends to have the largest effect on housing indicators such as starts and construction; employment indicators such as payrolls, hours worked, and jobless claims; and spending measures such as retail sales. We find a somewhat more modest impact on business surveys, and only a small impact on measures of consumer confidence. Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research Exhibit 4 shows Goldman's estimates of the effects of the harsh winter in December and January on various economic indicators, as well as forward assumptions for the weather-related effect on February and March data. "We assume, conservatively, that the heating degree days deviation in the second half of February will be only ¼ that of the first half of the month, and will then return gradually to 0 by June," says Mericle. "While subject to considerable uncertainty, our models anticipate a significant bounce-back effect beginning in March and continuing in the following months as weather conditions normalize." Goldman Sachs Global Investment ResearchExhibit 5 shows Goldman's Current Activity Indicator and what it would look like without the weather impacts to each data point calculated by Mericle, as well as forward estimates. Mericle expects it to accelerate to 2.9% in June from 2.5% in February. "The chart suggests that a bit more than half of the ¾-1 percentage point decline from the pre-December trend is a result of weather effects," he writes. "The January aggregate weather effect is smaller because the weather effects for the employment indicators are positive, reflecting that month’s unusually warm reference week. The chart also points to bounce-back from the weather hit in March and Q2. While the exact timing of this weather bounce-back effect is highly uncertain, it is likely to provide a substantial boost." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yannis Behrakis  The crisis in Kiev has taken a new, unstable turn, as the parliament has voted to oust Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych. The 328-0 vote to oust Yanukovych and elect a new president on May 25 came an hour after the embattled president said he was refusing to resign and that pro-EU forces have staged a "coup."  Late Friday, Yanukovych fled the capital Kiev for a Russian-speaking city in the eastern part of the country. Now that he's gone, protesters have effectively taken control of Ukraine. People belonging to an opposition group 31st Hundred were guarding the entry to the presidential palace on Saturday morning, The New York Times reported.  The country began to turn against the president after he reneged on promises to sign onto free trade deals with the European Union, as The New York Times reports. Anger against the government continued to mount after his supporters in parliament passed legislation that quashes political dissent. The president's departure has left a power vacuum that is being filled by the opposition. YouTubePresident Yanukovych announcing that he has not resigned and that there has been a 'coup.'WSJ reports on the power vacuum that has taken place in Kiev: Saturday, volunteer security brigades from among the protesters took over security at government buildings in the capital, and journalists reported around 300 people had entered Mr. Yanukovych's opulent suburban residence without resistance. Oleh Tyahnybok, an opposition leader, called on parliament to adopt a resolution calling on police and protesters' "self-defense" forces to work to prevent looting in Kiev and other cities. Outside the Kiev headquarters of Ukraine's security service, plain-clothed men wearing earpieces stood at the street corners, eying those who passed. They wouldn't say who they worked for. A liveblog at the Kyiv Post gives more color on the anarchic situation: The crowd of more than 1,000 people who has gathered at Mezhyhyria, the multimillion-dollar estate abandoned by President Viktor Yanukovych, say the complex belongs to the people. Activists, journalists and others are there and allowed to tour the grounds, but not inside the buildings now guarded by the opposition. Guards who refused to be identified said that four helicopters came and two armored personnel carriers came to the complex at 2 a.m. today, the last time they noticed that Yanukovych's security were still in chage of the place. Journalist and opposition activist Tetyana Chornovol -- who has published many investigations into Yanukovych's alleged illegal acquisition of the former state property -- is on the scene. She is talking to EuroMaidan security guards about creating a system not to allow vandalism. No one with masks will be let in. She is calling for calm until the grounds can be opened to the people. Small groups will be let in, accompanied by member of the anti-government "people's self-defense." There is a suggestion to make it a Museum of Corruption. Images are coming out from people who are inside Yanukovich's abandoned residence.  A protestor stands guard inside abandoned #kiev residence of Yanukovich. Seems unlikely he'll be back #euromaidan pic.twitter.com/pi8MWC5Wis — James Mates (@jamesmatesitv) February 22, 2014 Yanukovych says recent decisions made by parliament are "all illegal" and likened the situation in Ukraine to the rise of Nazis in Germany, the Associated Press reported. FREE AppDownload
NOAA, CustomWeather, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research Unseasonally harsh winter weather in the United States has caused disruption to economic activity and has many wondering to what extent the recent downturn in economic data surprises is reflective of transitory weather-related factors. A similar story has been playing out to the north as well — it's been unusually cold up there, and Canadian economic data surprises have also taken a turn for the worse. In a report discussing the effects of recent weather conditions on economic activity, Goldman Sachs economist David Mericle looks at the regional angle. "As a cross-check on the importance of adverse weather this winter, we can look at the cross-country link between temperature anomalies and data surprises," writes Mericle in the report. "Exhibit 3 compares changes in our regional MAP indexes with the cumulative deviation of heating degree days from seasonal norms since November. While only suggestive, the chart shows that the U.S. and Canada have had the coldest winters and the largest downside surprises." The report estimates that a bit more than half of the recent slowdown in U.S. economic activity is due to weather. "In terms of GDP growth, we expect a Q4 hit of -0.2 percentage points, a Q1 hit of about -0.5 percentage points, and a Q2 boost of 0.5-0.75 percentage points," says Mericle. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonTwenty four karat gold bars are seen at the United States West Point Mint facility in West Point, New York, June 5, 2013.Central banks made 368.6 tonnes in net gold purchase in 2013, according to The World Gold Council. Russia, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, and Korea, all saw significant increases in official reserves last year. Meanwhile, no gold sales were made in the final year of the current Central Bank Gold Agreement (CBGA), other than a sale that was part of Germany's coin minting program. Global official gold holdings totaled 31,812.0 tonnes as of August 2014, according to the latest report from the World Gold Council. We identified the ten countries with the largest gold reserves. Note: CBGA refers to the Central Bank Gold Agreements. The first Agreement (CBGA 1) ran from September 27, 1999 to September 26, 2004.  The second Agreement (CBGA 2) ran from September 27, 2004 to September 26, 2009. The third Agreement (CBGA 3) will run for five years from September 2009. FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderJuly 20, 2012, was a big night for Dave Girouard. It had been four months since he quit his job as head of Google Enterprise to pursue a bold new idea of his own. Now it was coming together. Crowded around a long wooden table with him at the trendy Foreign Cinema restaurant in San Francisco’s Mission District were his small, dedicated team; serial entrepreneur Andy Palmer, one of his enthusiastic investors; and six college students, bright-eyed kids with big plans who just needed a little boost. In front of him sat a stack of yellow envelopes containing a total of $210,000. The group laughed and talked excitedly over glasses of wine and plates of seafood. It was the first time most of them had met in person, and they were eager to share their stories and dreams for the future. Paul Gu discussed the income-prediction model he was building. Omri Mor explained his work on a music platform. Around 8 p.m., Girouard tapped his glass and stood. He reminded the table that the young people and the exciting things they were doing were the reasons he had left Google to start this company, Upstart. He thanked the six students there for being the guinea pigs in a totally new venture.  Two or three minutes later he wrapped it up. “We’re counting on you,” he told the students. “Don’t spend it all in one place. And do the right thing — make us proud.” With that, he passed out the envelopes.  Courtesy/UpstartDave Girouard, co-founder and CEO of Upstart, prepares to pass out $210,000. The stated goal of Upstart is to connect bright, ambitious young people with wealthy individuals who want to invest in their futures — and, with any luck, help them achieve their dreams. “Upstart was founded to help people do what they were meant to do,” the company announced at its launch in August 2012. “Many talented college grads take jobs they’re not excited about, rather than following their true passions. Whether constrained by debt or just comforted by traditional career options, too many students take the perceived ‘safe path.’” Upstart, in essence, wants to put a fork in the road. The venture is one among several attempts by companies to figure out how to give young people with brilliant ideas the financial means to see them through. Across the nation, a generation of would-be entrepreneurs, artists, thinkers, and innovators are being held hostage to student debt, limited credit, and financial instability. Grads with world-changing ideas often wind up abandoning them for the more stable path of a traditional job. In a great socioeconomic irony, the people who may stand to benefit the most from a healthy dose of capital tend to be the least able to obtain it. “Younger people who are in the early part of their careers are underserved by the financial markets,” says Girouard, Upstart’s co-founder and CEO. “We’re thinking of our mission much more broadly as a huge and important part of our whole economy.” The pursuit of an audacious dream can lead to great success, but it also demands risk. Upstart aims to spread that risk around through a shrewd model known as a human capital contract. Under these arrangements, borrowers receive funding from investors in exchange for a percentage of their future income over a set period. On Upstart’s platform, the borrowers are known as “upstarts” and the investors are termed “backers.” What makes human capital contracts unique is that the investment made is not in a particular company or idea, but in a person. After all, supporters argue, companies are no more than the product of the people who create them. So why not simplify the investment process? Why not treat the person as the startup — or, by Girouard’s clever inversion — the upstart?   Upstart and its main competitor, Pave, are harnessing the power of the market to support young people with the energy, ambition, and creativity to make a genuine mark in their chosen fields of endeavor. Rather than appealing to donors’ charitable instincts — like Kickstarter, Indiegogo, and other crowdfunding sites — they are trying to create a scalable marketplace that can transfer capital from wealthy people who have it to innovative people who need it, utilizing big data and new algorithms that aim to quantify a candidate’s future potential. “We’ve always been about democratizing access to funding and knowledge,” says Oren Bass, one of Pave’s co-founders. “You have people who are young, energetic, full of aspirations and energy and hope, yet they lack a suitable funding option that lets them go after these careers and these dreams of their choosing.”  One of those people is Andrew Galasetti, a self-published author and aspiring writer. Galasetti, 25, grew up in a poor household with his mother, a struggling artist, and an older sister after his father abandoned the family. Galasetti inherited his mother’s creative spark but struggled with a learning disability. Despite that, he nurtured ambitious plans for his future. In 2012, he graduated from Georgian Court University, a small Catholic school in New Jersey, with a bachelor’s in English, big dreams, and years of student loans to repay. In December 2013, Galasetti turned to Upstart. Over the next two months, he aimed to raise $25,000 from backers to promote and publish an upcoming novel, establish a publishing company, and solidify his career as a writer. On his blog, he called it “A leap of faith with Upstart.” “What if everyone could pursue their passions, purpose, and fulfill their dreams? Wouldn’t this country and the world be a better place?” Galasetti wrote on Dec. 7. “Upstart is trying to tackle these big questions. They may very well be the leap of faith into the right direction to make this a reality for more people. This is something special that I need to be a part of.” The exact percentage of future income that each upstart, or Talent, as Pave calls them, gives up is determined by an elaborate funding algorithm each company has created to predict an applicant’s earning potential. The models take into account a set of data points that includes education, standardized test scores, credit history, and job offers. The contracts themselves can be either five or 10 years in duration. In years where the borrower’s earnings fall below a certain threshold, no payments are made. Upstart defers them and tacks up to five additional years onto the contract, while Pave counts these years in the participation period unless the Talent is enrolled in a full-time academic or training program. Upstarts can give up no more than 7% of their future income, and Talents no more than 10%. Backers on both platforms are required to be SEC-accredited investors, which for individuals means they have either a minimum net worth of $1 million or earn more than $200,000 per year. Upstart targets an 8% return for them and Pave a 7% one, but backers can see an upside of up to five times their initial investment should their picks achieve great success. The backers have no control over how upstarts and Talents use the funds they raise, though they are encouraged to provide mentoring and advice. For their part, Upstart and Pave make money by taking a cut of the funding exchange. Upstart collects 3% of what students raise up front and charges an annual 0.5% on investments to backers. Pave takes 3% off what Talents raise and then 1.5% of each repayment. PaveFilmmaker Clara Aranovich raised $50,000 from 15 backers on Pave.To the borrowers, high-flying dreamers like Galasetti, Upstart and Pave are selling a kind of freedom. For the backers, these platforms offer a feel-good investment option — the chance to support a new generation while realizing a decent return. And the unspoken implication is that the next Mark Zuckerberg could be hiding somewhere in the unsponsored pool. Back an upstart or a Talent, and you just might bottle lightning. For this novel funding approach to take off, Upstart and Pave have made the lofty bet that they can take a generation of unpredictable young people — people with little or no work experience or credit history — and turn them into something highly predictable, a human asset class that even the most risk-averse investors will consider a smart place to put their money. But the higher stakes are being played out on the other side of the equation by the upstarts and Talents. They will be the ultimate measure of whether these companies can truly democratize access to capital. “It’s actually going to have a big effect on the socioeconomic makeup of America if we’re successful,” Bass says. “It’s a huge leveling of the playing field.”    FREE AppDownload
In December, BI's Joe Weisenthal wrote that it was time to start thinking about inflation again. The argument was this: for years, a cavalcade of doomsayers have argued that hyperinflation was right around the corner, but that hasn't been the case. Take a look at the year-over-year change in the consumer price index: FRED While CPI has remained muted in 2014, there's is now some evidence that elements of the inflation story may be changing. Namely, housing inflation, health care inflation, and wage growth may be poised to accelerate. And that story is important to market participants, as the Federal Reserve has put increasing emphasis on inflation in setting its forward guidance for the likely path of short-term interest rates. As the Wall Street Journal's Kathleen Madigan highlighted, the CPI report may have been pretty tepid, but the pace of housing inflation has picked up. "By January, [owners' equivalent rent] was up 2.5% compared to year-ago levels," writes Madigan. "That’s not a hot pace for housing costs (they were increasing at a yearly pace above 4% in early 2007). But since OER accounts for nearly one-quarter of the entire CPI, a pickup in that category will provide a lift to total inflation." FRED Health care inflation has also begun to accelerate, as Joe LaVorgna, chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank, points out. "The price of selected health care industries rose +0.3% in January following gains of +0.2% in December and +0.3% in November," wrote LaVorgna in a recent note to clients, illustrating the rise in the chart below. Deutsche Bank A new paper from the New York Fed suggests that the short-term unemployment rate is a better predictor of wage growth than the headline unemployment rate. And both short-term unemployment and wage growth continue to improve, suggesting that — if the Fed takes the conclusions of this paper into consideration — it may need to adjust rates sooner than some market participants expect. Department of Commerce, Department of Labor, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research These ideas are starting to gain traction among market economists. UBS chief economist Maury Harris looked at this back in November, writing in a note to clients: The y/y percentage change in the core PCE deflator has decelerated by 52bps through September. That deceleration has been the result of sharp drops in medical goods, health care services and financial services inflation. Combined, these account for almost all the deceleration witnessed over the last year. However, these now seem to be showing signs of re-acceleration. From June to September, the 3-month annualized rate of change for medical goods inflation has jumped from -0.4% to +4.8%, health care services have risen from -0.5% to +1.3%, and financial services inflation has bounced from +0.2% to +2.6%. We expect core PCE inflation will end 2014 at 1.9%, almost on the FOMC’s target. All of this is to say that inflation may become a bigger part of the monetary policy story this year as the Federal Reserve weans itself off of quantitative easing and allows forward guidance to assume a larger role. So stay tuned. FREE AppDownload
