 REUTERS/ Nir EliasThe Chinese economy expanded 7.5% year-over-year in the second quarter, compared with a 7.4% rise in Q1. This modestly beat expectations for a 7.4% rise. Year-to-date Chinese GDP climbed 7.4% in line with expectations. Beijing unleashed a mini-stimulus to support growth after the lackluster first quarter. We also got a string of other economic data to give us clues to the health of the Chinese economy. Retail sales climbed 12.4% in June, modestly below expectations for a 12.5% rise. Fixed asset investment (FAI) climbed 17.3% YoY, beating expectations for a  17.2% rise. And this compared with a 17.2% rise in May. Finally, industrial production is expected was up 9.2% YoY in June, compared to an 8.8% rise in May, and beating expectations for a 9% rise. On Tuesday we saw Chinese credit data come in much stronger than expected with new loans surging to 1.078 trillion yuan in June, from 871 billion yuan in May. This far surpassed expectations for 955 billion yuan.  Total Social Financing (TSF) surged to 1.98 trillion yuan in June, from 1.40 trillion yuan in May, and beating expectations for 1.42 trillion yuan. This prompted Bloomberg economist Tom Orlik to tweet that growth is now Beijing's top priority: Tom Orlik/Bloomberg  "China's recovery remains on track and the economy is stabilizing in the near-term," UBS’ Wang Tao wrote in a note ahead of the data release. "However, headwinds from the ongoing property slowdown will likely intensify later this year and pose headwinds into next year. As growth momentum starts to ebb, pressure on the government to step up policy support will swell again." FREE AppDownload
Chinese GDP data for Q2 is out today, and the median market expectation among economists is for annualised growth of 7.4% year on year. This is a stronger number than might have been expected earlier in the year for the economy whose fortunes are closely linked to that of Australia’s, being our closest trading partner. There has been some gathering momentum in China’s economy in recent months, thanks to some targeted stimulus measures from the Chinese government, such as rail building projects. Societe Generale is a little ahead of the market, expecting GDP growth of 7.5% for the year. This is a big upward revision to their previous estimate of 7.1%. But this morning they warn a good number shouldn’t be taken as a sign that China is out of the woods. In their Asia morning call today, the bank wrote to clients: … better GDP growth in Q2 does not mean lower risk ahead, in our view. The dark cloud of the housing downturn is still hovering over the economy. The latest report from Soufun, a private data provider that monitors property prices in 100 Chinese cities, showed that the average residential property price declined 0.5% mom in June, more than doubling the pace of contraction in the previous month. The survey also indicated that new apartments offered deeper discounts, as developers were eager to boost sales in order to liquidate their inventories. Housing construction and investment data are likely to have deteriorated further in June. As a result, we expect year-to-date fixed asset investment growth to remain at 17.2% yoy, despite a positive base effect and further pick-up in infrastructure investment. So there’s a lot more to look for in today’s data releases than just the headline figures. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Nacho DoceRussia's President Vladimir Putin looks on during the 6th BRICS Summit in Fortaleza July 15, 2014. Good morning! It’s China GDP day. Here’s what you need to know… 1. The market’s expecting Chinese GDP at 7.4%  annualised, with 1.8% for the quarter. A lot of Chinese data points – like last week’s inflation print – have been coming in broadly in line with expectations lately. It’s not just the overall economic output growth we get today from China though: there’s also industrial production, fixed investment, and retail sales data. Big day. 2. Yellen warns on tech stocks. Janet Yellen, in her report to Congress on US monetary policy, said this: “Valuation metrics in some sectors do appear substantially stretched — particularly those for smaller firms in the social media and biotechnology industries.” Facebook’s stock promptly fell more than 1%, and the overall market fell slightly too, despite a reassurance from Yellen that “valuation measures for the overall market in early July were generally at levels not far above their historical averages, suggesting that, in aggregate, investors are not excessively optimistic regarding equities.” 3. But there’s slack left in the US labour market, according to Yellen’s assessment. “Labour force participation appears weaker than one would expect based on the ageing of the population and the level of unemployment,” she said, and her overall message was that rates would remain lower for longer even as the economy normalises. It’s a reminder that wage growth is the critical indicator of the strength of the US recovery. 4. So at the close, US stocks were mixed, with the Dow gaining a tiny 0.03% but the S&amp;P 500 falling 0.2% and the Nasdaq, home to many of those tech stocks Yellen warned about, down 0.5%. It follows a flat day on the ASX yesterday while stocks were up across Asia, with the Nikkei up 0.6% the Hang Seng was 0.5% higher and Shanghai up just over 0.1%. Futures are 6 points higher ahead of the open in Australia. 5. Qantas ownership deal. The Coalition has struck a deal with Labor to make changes to the rules governing Qantas share ownership, but it falls short of what the airline was looking for when it started its lobbying for regulatory changes last year. Under the deal, Qantas must remain 51% Australian-owned, but foreign airlines or investors can own up to 49%, as opposed to the current of of 35% ownership by a foreign airline or 25% for an individual investor. This is a long way from nuclear options being canvassed months ago, when it looked like Qantas might get some form of government debt guarantee – an idea aired by Joe Hockey but memorably torpedoed by Tony Abbott one day in Parliament – or a complete repeal of the ownership rules in Part 3 of the Qantas Sale Act. Now it just looks like changes to the Act which will allow foreign investors to own much greater chunks of the airline. It’s unclear at this point whether other cumbersome elements of Part 3 of the Qantas Sale act will remain, such as the requirement that two-thirds of the board members be Australian citizens, or that board meetings feature Vegemite sandwiches and the chair saying “Tell him he’s dreamin’” when deciding in the negative. (OK, that last bit’s made up.) 6. FOFA rollback goes ahead. The government struck a deal with Clive Palmer that allows it to keep its Future of Financial Advice changes, which wound back certain consumer protections in the Labor government’s reforms. Palmer claims to have secured concessions that will force financial planners to put clients’ interests over their own. But it’s a long way from his position early last week, when he told the AFR, when asked if he would be for turning on the issue: “They can stick it up their a***.” 7. Apple has announced a huge partnership with IBM, which will see IBM developing cloud services optimised for iOS and using its sales force to build new business with enterprises. Apple devices sold through the program will ship with IBM’s MobileFirst platform, which includes a range of productivity tools for big companies. Here’s Tim Cook’s memo to Apple staff about it. 8. Spare a thought for Chris Scott, who feels oddly violated after a seemingly random tweet he wrote last month appears to have gone massively viral and is now being wilfully plagiarised all over the internet. “Oh hi Becky who refused to kiss me during spin the bottle in 6th grade &amp; now wants to play FarmVille,” he wrote, “looks like tables have f*cking turned.” Pretty good, eh? 20,000 retweets later, he was getting wrongfully accused of plagiarism himself by a TV comedian, and the joke has taken on a life of his own. Scott is philosophical – here’s his story. 9. Geoffrey and Gabi are getting married. Four days ago the Sydney Morning Herald called it “romance over”. Today it’s “Geoffrey Edelsten and Gabi Grecko to marry”. Apparently the deal was made in a coversation, not a proposal, according to Grecko, who’s now beginning Judaism lessons because that’s what Edelsten’s 91-year-old mum wants. 10. Barina for sale. Aussie ad man David Johns from digital agency Chimney put his talents to use in creating a viral campaign asking people to #BuyMyBarina. The YouTube video is slick, persuasive, has 280,000 views and cost $8000 to make – $6000 more than the car is worth. Here’s the ad.    This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dadang Tri FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For Bond Investors, These Risks Might Be Worth Taking (Advisor Perspectives)  "We think bond investors are not adequately compensated for taking on interest-rate, credit or liquidity risk in the current market environment," writes Kathleen Gaffney of Eaton Vance in Advisor Perspectives. "This begs the question: What risks are worth taking in the bond markets if these traditional risks are overvalued?" "…While we think traditional risks in the bond market as a whole may be expensive now, we reason that focusing on idiosyncratic risks, or unique factors of specific issuers, may aid in finding value in today’s bond markets. Capitalizing on such opportunities requires in-depth understanding of the fundamentals of issuers.  "We think careful analysis of issuer-specific risks may help uncover income opportunities. Specifically, we think non-U.S. debt (such as emerging-market debt), commodity-related debt issued by companies and countries, and so-called “fallen angels” in the high-yield space may be attractive options for investors to consider." The Wealthy Should Probably Keep Mum About Their Finances (The Wall Street Journal)  "The smartest thing for the wealthy person to do is not to say anything about their wealth," Robert Dilenschneider of Dilenschneider Group Inc told Daisy Maxey at the WSJ. Hilary Clinton recently caused a stir when she said her and her husband, former president Bill Clinton were "dead broke" and in debt when they left the White House.   "Comments about financial status that are incorrect, misunderstood or too revealing can prove troublesome for anyone. But for the very wealthy, these can harm their public image or career, attract Internal Revenue Service scrutiny or--in a worst-case scenario--put them in danger," writes Maxey. Janet Yellen Takes Dead Aim At Social-Media Company Valuations (Business Insider)  Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen delivered her semi-annual monetary policy report before the Senate Banking Committee on Tuesday. Ahead of the statement we got the full report to Congress in which Yellen warned that valuations of certain stocks are stretched. "…Valuation metrics in some sectors do appear substantially stretched—particularly those for smaller firms in the social media and biotechnology industries, despite a notable downturn in equity prices for such firms early in the year," she said. Yellen however pointed out that the broader stock market does not seem overvalued. "Some broad equity price indexes have increased to all-time highs in nominal terms since the end of 2013. However, valuation measures for the overall market in early July were generally at levels not far above their historical averages, suggesting that, in aggregate, investors are not excessively optimistic regarding equities." $650 Million Broker Team Leaves Morgan Stanley (Investment News/Bloomberg)  Four Morgan Stanley brokers with $650 million in client assets have left to set up Encompass Wealth Advisors, reports Bloomberg. "The team left Morgan Stanley's Portland office today and immediately set up Encompass Wealth Advisors using trading systems, research, lawyers and office space arranged by Tru Independence LLC, also based in Portland," reports Bloomberg. "Mr. Stuvland's is the latest in a growing number of firms that help wealth advisers leave large banks and go it alone. Dynasty Financial Partners LLC, founded in 2010, has 22 companies that manage $21 billion using its system. HighTower Advisors LLC in Chicago and Focus Financial Partners LLC in New York also work to pry brokers out of big firms." Schwab Charitable Sees 38% Jump In Grants (FA Mag) Schwab Charitable reports that donors grants climbed 38% year-over-year rise to $822 million and went to over 34,500 charities in fiscal 2014. "Our donors have absorbed the new tax policies that took effect in 2013 and they are encouraged by an improving economy and a strong stock market,” Kim Laughton, president of Schwab Charitable told FA Mag. “As a result, they are increasing their giving and supporting a wide range of causes." FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Neil KremerThe House of Representatives easily passed a bill to keep the Highway Trust Fund solvent through next May, handing a brutal defeat to conservative groups that urged Republican members to oppose the plan. In a broadly bipartisan vote of 367-55, the House passed the bill to avert what some lawmakers have referred to as a "highway shutdown" or "construction shutdown." The Obama administration warned the pending insolvency of the Highway Trust Fund could cost hundreds of thousands of jobs, and the crisis has worried Washington and Wall Street for months.  In all, 181 Republicans and 186 Democrats voted for the House's plan. Only 45 Republicans and 10 Democrats opposed. The Senate could now counter by voting on its own bill, which is being authored by the Senate Finance Committee and differs only slightly from the House's legislation. Or it could simply vote on the House's plan. The White House signaled reluctant support for the House GOP-led bill, saying it supports a long-term infrastructure solution but hinting President Barack Obama would sign the bill if it made it to his desk. The overwhelming vote was a setback to conservative groups like Heritage Action and the Club for Growth, which opposed the plan and threatened members of Congress by "key voting" the bill on their scorecards and making it a heavily weighted factor in their letter grades for lawmakers. However, the groups are already gearing up for a broad fight over the future of federal transportation policy next year. "No one really believes today’s bill, which is chock full of gimmicks and revenue raisers, represents good policy.  But the specter of a crisis, no matter how overstated, occasionally causes solid conservatives to cast votes based on factors other than the underlying policy," said Dan Holler, a spokesman for Heritage Action. On Tuesday, the groups and lawmakers who supported the plan and expected its passage urged Congress to immediately work toward a longer-term solution on infrastructure. During a speech in McLean, Virginia, Obama pushed his administration's four-year, $302 billion transportation plan that would be offset through eliminating certain tax loopholes. "All this does is set us up for the same crisis a few months from now," Obama said of the House bill. "So Congress shouldn’t pat itself on the back for averting disaster for a few months, kicking the can down the road for a few months, careening from crisis to crisis when it comes to something as basic as our infrastructure.  Instead of barely paying our bills in the present, we should be investing in the future." The House bill, which injects more than $10 billion of cash into the Highway Trust Fund, is "offset" through two main provisions, both of which have received bipartisan support in Congress but broad outside opposition: • "Pension smoothing," which permits employers to delay contributions to employee pension plans, thereby increasing taxable corporate income and generating revenue for the Treasury ($6.4 billion). • Customs user fees, a provision in last year's bipartisan budget deal that allows the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection to collect certain fees ($3.5 billion). FREE AppDownload
College costs can vary widely across the country, with the price of education going up drastically in certain states. To chart this range, we found the most expensive college in each state, based on their overall direct costs for the upcoming academic year. California's Harvey Mudd College is the most expensive college in the country, with an overall price tag of $64,527 for the 2014-15 academic year. On the other end of the spectrum, the most expensive college in Alaska — the University of Alaska Anchorage — charges only $27,645. Business Insider recently revealed that at least 50 colleges in the country charge more than $60,000 per year. We found these numbers by examining the average cost of tuition, fees, room, and board that an incoming student would face over the 2014-15 academic year. Check out a more in-depth breakdown of the 20 most expensive colleges here &gt;&gt; Here's a great infographic map of the schools, created by BI's Mike Nudelman:Mike Nudelman/Business Insider To compile our list, we looked at this map created by Mike Simmons at eCollegeFinder, as well as information from CollegeCalc. FREE AppDownload
Flickr, Daniel OinesHershey is raising prices by 8%.  In the latest sign that inflation could be coming down the pike, the chocolate giant, which has a market cap of about $21 billion, is boosting prices in response to commodity prices.  The Fed's preferred measure of inflation — core PCE — excludes the cost of food and gas, but following last week's commentary from retailers about the state of the U.S. consumer, these price increases can squeeze budgets without showing up in official statistics.  In a press release, Hershey announced an increase across its lines. "The Hershey Company (NYSE:HSY) today announced an increase in wholesale prices across the majority of its U.S., Puerto Rico and export portfolio. A weighted average price increase of approximately 8 percent across the company's instant consumable, multi-pack, packaged candy and grocery lines is effective today. These changes will help offset part of the significant increases in Hershey's input costs, including raw materials, packaging, fuel, utilities and transportation, which the company expects to incur in the future." Michele Buck, Hershey's North American president said, "Over the last year key input costs have been volatile and remain at levels that are above historical averages. Commodity spot prices for ingredients such as cocoa, dairy and nuts have increased meaningfully since the beginning of the year. Given these trends, we expect significant commodity cost increases in 2015." Along with its price increases, the company also said that it expects second quarter net sales to increase 4.5%, including a 0.75% headwind related to foreign currency exchange rates. The company expects adjusted earnings per share to total $0.75-$0.77. Expectations are for $0.76. This chart from FinViz shows the price of cocoa over the last year. FinViz This from the St. Louis Fed, alerted to us by Annalyn Kurtz of CNN Money, shows the inflation in the price of candy and chewing gum since 1998. FRED And here's that same data on a year-over-year basis. FRED FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Adrees LatifFamily members watch as 11-year-old Mark takes aim with an AR-15 style assault rifle on the exhibit floor at the National Rifle Association (NRA)'s annual meeting in Houston, Texas on May 3, 2013.We've all heard the saying "Everything's bigger in Texas" — and we're here to show you that it's true. The Lone Star State is home to nearly 26.5 million people, or 8.4% of the total U.S. population. Most of this population is concentrated around cities including Houston, Dallas, and Austin. Texas contains a major portion of the U.S. economy. Its total gross domestic product is $1.43 trillion, which is approximately 8.5% of the entire U.S. GDP. Although Texas is primarily known for its oil, it is also the leader in wind power development, and has a large aerospace and aviation industry. Fifty-two Fortune 500 companies including ExxonMobil, AT&amp;T, and American Airlines are headquartered in Texas. FREE AppDownload
Pascal Lauener/ReutersMarissa Mayer.Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer had a blunt opening line in Tuesday's Q2 2014 earnings release: Our top priority is revenue growth and by that measure, we are not satisfied with our Q2 results. While several areas showed strength, their growth was offset by declines. Yahoo Search, for example, had a strong quarter, growing 6% year-over-year on a revenue ex-TAC basis and 19% year-over-year in search click-driven revenue.  Our social, mobile, video and native areas also grew with significant momentum, collectively gaining nearly 90% year-over-year.  However, display remains an area of investment and transition.  In Q2, we saw display revenue decline, further highlighting the fact that we need to work faster to ameliorate the negative trends.  I believe we can and will do better moving forward. Overall, I remain confident in Yahoo's future, our strategy, and our return to long-term growth. Yahoo missed earnings expectations, but the stock was still up in after-hours tradings because the company owns a large portion of Chinese ecommerce company Alibaba, which is about to IPO. Follow the full Yahoo earnings coverage here &gt;&gt; FREE AppDownload
IntelIntel reported Q2 EPS of $0.55 on revenue of $13.8 billion. Analysts were expecting earnings per share of $0.52 on revenue of $13.71 billion. Following the numbers, shares of Intel were up 2.7% in after hours trade. For the third quarter, the company expects revenue of $14.4 billion, plus or minus $500 million. The company also expects to incur $20 million worth of restructuring charges during Q3. For fiscal 2014, the company expects revenue growth of about 5%, slightly higher than what the company had previously expected.  In comments accompanying the release, Intel CFO Stacy Smith said, "The second quarter came in above the expectations we provided in the April Earnings call, and consistent with the revised outlook we released on June 12. It was a good quarter representing financial growth and solid momentum as we approach the second half of the year." Looking at its segments for the second quarter, Intel said revenue in its PC Client Group was up 6% over last year, while Data Center Group revenue was up 19% and Internet of Things revenue were up 24% year over year, and up 12% over last quarter.  In the second quarter, the company's R&amp;D spending was $4.9 billion, flat from the first quarter.  In the first quarter, Intel reported earnings per share of $0.38 on revenue of $12.8 billion. Here's the full release from Intel. SANTA CLARA, Calif., July 15, 2014 -- Intel Corporation today reported second-quarter revenue of $13.8 billion, operating income of $3.8 billion, net income of $2.8 billion and EPS of $0.55. The company generated approximately $5.5 billion in cash from operations, paid dividends of $1.1 billion, and used $2.1 billion to repurchase 74 million shares of stock. "Our second-quarter results showed the strength of our strategy to extend the reach of Intel technology from the data center to PCs to the Internet of Things," said Intel CEO Brian Krzanich. "With the ramp of our Baytrail SoC family, we have expanded into new segments such as Chrome-based systems, and we are on track to meet our 40 million unit tablet goal. In addition, we hit an important qualification milestone for our upcoming 14nm Broadwell product, and expect the first systems to be on shelves during the holidays." Intel announced that it intends to return more cash to shareholders by lowering its cash balance further through increased share repurchases. The board of directors authorized an increase of $20 billion to its share repurchase program and the company is forecasting share repurchases of approximately $4 billion in the third quarter, with additional share repurchases in the fourth quarter. Over the last decade Intel has returned almost $90 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. "This change in our capital structure is the continuation of a multi-year focus on creating value and returning cash to our shareholders, and reinforces our confidence in the business," said Stacy J. Smith, Intel CFO and executive vice president. Q2 Key Business Unit Trends Intel IntelBusiness Outlook Intel's Business Outlook does not include the potential impact of any business combinations, asset acquisitions, divestitures, strategic investments and other significant transactions that may be completed after July 15. Q3 2014 Full-Year 2014 FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim BourgU.S. Federal Reserve Board Chair Janet Yellen is reflected in the decorative cover over her food at a working lunch.Stocks were mixed in a session that saw Fed Chair Janet Yellen speak on Capitol Hill, while two major U.S. banks also reported earnings and retail sales for June were a bit below expectations. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: 1) Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen was on Capitol Hill, giving prepared remarks and answering questions from members of the Senate Banking Committee. Some of the notable commentary out of Yellen's prepared remarks were comments on the labor market, which said that, "significant slack" remains in labor markets, indicated by the slow pace of wage growth. Yellen also noted that low interest rates have provided incentives for some investors to "reach for yield," and that valuations appear stretched in some sectors, such as "lower-rated corporate debt." 2) In a full report delivered to lawmakers, the Federal Reserve singled out, "smaller firms in the social media and biotechnology industries," as pockets of the market where valuations seem, "substantially stretched." The market weakened a bit in late morning trade as investors digested the release from the Fed, but as people began to read Yellen's commentary in the context of the day's broader message, which reiterated that rates will remain lower for longer even after the economy "normalizes," the markets erased some of their early losses. The Nasdaq, which houses many of the social media and biotech names that many saw as the target of Yellen's warnings, was the worst performing index today. 3) Before Yellen's testimony, the Census reported June retail sales that grew 0.2% over last month, missing economists' expectations for sales to grow 0.6%. Excluding autos and gas, however, retail sales grew 0.4%. Economists expected this measure to expand 0.5%. May's retail sales were also revised up to growing 0.5% from a prior reading of 0.3%. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "In one line: Solid. The details are better than the headline... The trend is core sales is solid, with the y/y rate at 4.2% in Q2, but a further acceleration likely will require faster wage gains. They're coming." 4) The July Empire Manufacturing index came in at 25.60 in July, better than 19.28 in June. Economists were expecting the index to decline to 17.0. According to the New York Fed, this was the reading's highest level in over four years. Following the report, Sam Coffin at UBS said, "The Empire State survey has generally appeared consistent with the rebound in growth and rebuilding of inventories that we see for Q2: its average level of 13.2 was the highest since [the first quarter of 2012]." 5) Before the market open, JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs both reported quarterly earnings, with both banks beating on the bottom line. JPMorgan reported Q2 earnings per share, excluding certain items of $1.46. Analysts were expecting earnings of $1.31. JPMorgan's revenue came in at $25.3 billion, and on the company's conference call, CEO Jamie Dimon, who a few weeks ago announced he had curable throat cancer, said he "feels great." 6) Goldman Sachs reported Q2 adjusted earnings per share of $4.10, topping expectations for earnings of $3.09. Revenue was $9.13 billion, also better than the $7.98 billion that was expected. Goldman's revenue in its fixed income, currency and commodities client execution segment were down 10% over last year, while revenues in equities were down 13%.  7) Things are still tough on Wall Street, and these two charts from JPMorgan's earnings presentations showed just how hard things were for traders in the second quarter. JPMorgan's markets revenue down 14% in Q2 (though the bank said in May that it could fall as much as 20%), while mortgage production fell 74% over last year.  8) Tobacco giants Reynolds American and Lorillard announced a $27.4 billion merger deal in which Reynolds would acquire Lorillard, as well as spin off some of its brands to British tobacco company Imperial Tobacco. Following the news, shares of Reynolds closed down nearly 7%, while Lorillard shares fell more than 10%. Don't Miss: Elizabeth Warren Destroys Janet Yellen Over JPMorgan's 'Living Will' » FREE AppDownload
This position has been filled. See all available jobs at Business Insider here &gt;&gt;   Mike Nudelman/Business Insider Business Insider is looking for a Graphic Design Intern to assist the newsroom's graphic designer. Projects would range from basic Photoshop requests to more creative assignments such as maps, charts and infographics. As an intern here, you'll gain valuable experience collaborating with journalists in a fast-paced and fun work environment. Other perks at BI include free snacks, ping pong, and never having to fetch coffee. Qualifications The ideal intern will be a super creative team player with amazing attention to detail. Other desired skills include: To Apply Apply here with your resume and cover letter, including a link to your design website. Feel free to include any social media links, as well. To see the type of graphics work we do, check out our Twitter account. Please note: This internship requires that you work in our Manhattan office a minimum of three days a week, preferably full-time at 40 hours a week.  FREE AppDownload
SECThe unstated rule among most government regulators is to provide as much information as possible using the most formal, colorless language as possible.  Bloomberg's Matt Levine points us to a new speech from SEC governor Michael S. Piwowar that blows this dictum out of the water. In remarks at the conservative AEI Institute, Piwowar blasts the Financial Stability Oversight Council, a body created in the wake of the financial crisis to serve as an additional sentry over financial markets, for a lack of transparency and for overstepping its bounds.  This is despite the fact that SEC Chair Mary Jo White is one of FSOC's voting members, along with Fed Chair Janet Yellen, Treasury Secretary Jack Lew and Timothy Massad, the head of the CFTC.  Piwowar nevertheless says the FSOC, thanks to the influence of the Fed, has gained a reputation for lack of transparency and unaccountability since its inception in 2011, and ridicules it as a breeding ground for government overreach.  In preparing for this speech, I thought a lot about what moniker I could use to best describe the FSOC.  The Firing Squad On Capitalism [emphasis his].  The Vast Left Wing Conspiracy to Hinder Capital Formation.  The Bully Pulpit of Failed Prudential Regulators.  The Dodd-Frank Politburo.  The Modern-Day Star Chamber.  You get the point.  There are countless terms I could use that are appropriately pejorative and at the same time entirely accurate.  For the sake of clarity, I will stick with references to the two official nicknames of the FSOC – the “Council” or the “Unaccountable Capital Markets Death Panel.” Among other things, the FSOC is in charge of designating non-financial institutions as systemically important, and therefore bringing them under the Fed's regulatory control. The Fed's lack of legal oversight over AIG helped exacerbate the financial crisis because it could not immediately gain access to its books, as it was able to do for Bear Stearns and Lehman. The reforms that have since come in under the Dodd-Frank, often referred to as "macroprudential regulation," aim to combat that vacuum.  But Piwowar slams FSOC, and the Fed, for stealing this authority from the SEC. Lest there be any confusion over the broad scope of “macroprudential regulation,” [Fed] Governor [Daniel] Tarullo reiterated in a speech last month that “any firm whose failure could pose systemic risk is subject to prudential regulation, quite apart from its relationship with [insured depository institutions].” Governor Tarullo is clearly asserting the Fed’s “alpha-dog” role and issuing a call to action for the Council, which is the body that was formed to look at cross-sector threats to financial stability.  Ultimately, though, through a “macroprudential” approach the Fed would expand its reach by immediately pulling under its regulatory umbrella any firms designated as “systemically important financial institutions” (“SIFIs”). In its attempt to gain authority over capital market actors, the Fed, through the Council, has been ignoring the talent and skills of the hundreds of subject matter experts in each of the SEC’s rulemaking divisions...The prudential regulators on the Council have been proceeding as if they themselves are the ones who know securities markets and investment products best.    An Obama appointee, Piwowar joined the SEC about a year ago. He previously served as the Republican chief economist for the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs under Senators Mike Crapo (R-ID) and Richard Shelby (R-AL). His views don't seem to have changed much. Click here to read the full speech » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Phil McCartenThe 24-hour news cycle means investors are constantly subjected to a lot of noise. And that often comes in the way of various predictions by economists. But Mohamed El-Erian, chief economic advisor to Allianz and former CEO and Co-CIO at PIMCO, writes that  investors should be wary of interpreting economists' predictions. To make predictions about the things that support stock prices, they'd need to make predictions about "productivity trends and the effectiveness of macroprudential policies," writes El-Erian, in the Financial Times. But this is notoriously hard to do. "Economists are not well placed to make confident predictions about the risk of greater economic and financial instability," he writes. From El-Erian: "Productivity trends are hard to measure accurately, let alone predict. The record on assessing financial instability is even worse. It is not just that most economists misjudged the run-up to the 2008 financial crisis; even Fed officials, who arguably are a lot closer to markets, were shocked by last year’s severe “taper tantrum”. And if all these people cannot get their arms around the underlying fragility of the financial system, it is difficult to be confident about the effectiveness of macroprudential measures. "All of which is to say that the analytical underpinnings of the current phase of risk taking in financial markets are far from robust. Yes, the Fed’s policy approach could succeed in the next few quarters in engineering a handover from financial excesses to economic lift-off, thereby validating high market valuations and pushing them even higher, especially if the world has indeed transitioned to a paradigm of significantly and permanently lower levels of nominal and inflation-adjusted growth. "But the timing is inherently uncertain. And the probabilities of doing so may not overwhelmingly dominate those of a less pleasant scenario – that of stagflation and greater financial instability. This configuration of more balanced risk is not yet reflected in asset prices and the levels of implied and realized volatility." Investors beware. Read the entire article at the Financial Times » FREE AppDownload
Bureau of Labor StatisticsThe Bureau of Labor Statistics just published this fun graph which shows summer employment peaks in a handful private-sector industries, not seasonally adjusted, for January 2004 through Mary 2014.  Employment in these industries follow a regular, perennial pattern: there is maximum employment in the summer and minimum employment in the winter. The industry with the largest percent change is the recreational and vacation camps (green).  However, percent change is not the whole story. The actual numerical difference of hired people is around 53,000.  In contrast, employment by golf courses and country clubs (navy) changes by an average amount of 206,000 people — even though the actual percent change is lower. The hotels and motels excluding casinos industry (dark red) has a difference of about 150,000 employed, despite the fact that the curve on the graph does not look as extreme. FREE AppDownload
David McNew/Getty ImagesRight- and left-leaning groups are divided on the fate of federal highway spending. But one thing they can agree on is they don't like the way House Republicans' bill set to be voted on Tuesday is paid for. The House GOP's bill, which was drafted by House Ways and Means Committee Chair Dave Camp, would inject a cash infusion of more than $10 billion into the Highway Trust Fund. Camp said this money would pay for the infrastructure projects the fund supports through next May. Without congressional action, the trust fund is projected to become insolvent beginning next month, a situation that threatens thousands of projects and construction jobs. The bill includes "offsets" to counteract the new spending and make the bill revenue-neutral. Camp said the main offset, which would increase revenues by $6.4 billion over 10 years, is a mechanism known as "pension smoothing." It permits employers to delay contributions to employee pension plans, thereby increasing taxable corporate income and generating revenue for the Treasury. But its detractors say that's nothing more than an accounting gimmick that might not end up raising any revenue and could hurt workers. It's a large part of the reason there's so much conservative opposition to the House GOP's plan. "It's a short-term bill full of budget gimmicks and no policy changes," Daniel Horowitz, a spokesman for the conservative Madison Project, told Business Insider on Monday.  "There's no innovation. It's almost like, on the Democratic side, it's always raise taxes. Whereas on the Republican side, it's almost like they're Old MacDonald: 'And a $5 million here, and a $5 trillion there!' The notion that these are offsets is just preposterous." The opposition to "pension smoothing" is not a uniquely conservative idea. Numerous left-leaning policy centers, including the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, and other bipartisan think tanks oppose the provision.  Pension smoothing has quickly become one of Congress' favorite ways to offset spending in a bill. It was also included as part of Democrats' push to revive unemployment insurance earlier this year. And during the federal government shutdown last year, Republicans included it as part of a provision that would repeal the Affordable Care Act's tax on certain medical devices.  The bipartisan dissent from different groups is predicated on the idea pension smoothing won't do much to reduce the deficit in the long-term. Instead, it's the classic Washington move of "kicking the can down the road" — where it would raise some revenues now, it would only exacerbate a problem years from now. Len Burman, the director of the Tax Policy Center, recently explained how pension smoothing works. And he said it could actually end up adding spending, instead of offsetting it, later on: "In a nutshell, here’s what it does: Companies can postpone contributions to their pension funds. This means that their tax deductions for pension contributions are lower now, but the actual pension obligations don’t change, so contributions later will have to be higher—by the same amount plus interest. In present value terms (that is, accounting for interest costs), this raises exactly zero revenue over the long run. Let me say that again using all capital letters to express my frustration. THIS $6.4 BILLION REVENUE PROVISION RAISES NO REVENUE OVER THE LONG RUN!!!" When scoring the Senate's unemployment-benefits bill, the Congressional Budget Office projected the pension smoothing included in the bill would raise about $17 billion over the first six years. But the gains would decline in subsequent years, to the point where net savings over a 10-year period would be only $4 billion, as this chart from The Committee for a Responsible Budget explains: Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget Why doesn't Congress care about this? Likely because all of their bills are officially "scored" within a 10-year budget window by the Congressional Budget Office. That's how it becomes revenue-neutral over the 10-year period.  Horowitz said pension smoothing has a "rubber band effect." Companies contribute less now, but in the end, they're going to have to make it up. "It's 'garbage in, garbage out.' To the extent that you 'get' that revenue, you would almost certainly lose it again," Horowitz said.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueU.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen adjusts her glasses as she testifies before the Senate Banking Committee on Capitol Hill in Washington July 15, 2014.After five-and-a-half years of keeping short-term rates in a range of 0–0.25%, many market participants believe the Federal Reserve (Fed) is now about 12 months away from hiking interest rates. This may affect markets in the months and quarters ahead as investors begin to brace for a change in policy. Over the five-and-a-half years since the Fed took the federal funds rate down to a range of 0–0.25% on December 16, 2008, participants in the fed funds futures market have had varying views on when the Fed may begin to raise rates for the first time. Figure 1 shows the number of months until the fed funds futures yield will move above the 0–0.25% range priced into the futures market at the end of each month. Figure 1 also shows the 10-year Treasury yield (shown with an inverted scale), revealing how in sync long-term bond yields have been with the outlook for short-term rate moves by the Fed. With the participants in the futures market pricing in the first rate hike at 12 months away, 10-year Treasury yields should be between 2.5% and 3.0%, based on the past five-and-a-half year relationship between them. The 10- year yield is at the low end of that range now. However, if this relationship persists and the year ends with market participants still thinking the Fed will hike rates in July 2015, the 10-year yield may end this year in a range of 3.0–3.5%. Of course, the markets have been wrong repeatedly over the past five years on how soon the Fed may hike rates. LPL FinancialThe potential for a rise in rates may put pressure on the returns from bonds and interest rate sensitive stocks, as has historically been the case in the year before the first rate hike. Looking back at the seven different times the Fed began to hike rates over the past 35 years, the 10-year Treasury yield rose each time, putting downward pressure on bond prices. Also, the three weakest sectors of the stock market were utilities, financials, and telecommunications services, on average, during the year before rate hikes began. A common worry among investors is that the stock market may fall as the Fed gets closer to hiking rates. But, historically, this has not been the case. In fact, the S&amp;P 500 posted a gain in the 12 months ahead of the first rate hike from the Fed in every one of those past seven periods and gained 20.7%, on average. Moreover, the stock market does not appear to be prepping to deviate from that pattern this time, as you can see in Figure 2. In fact, although the fit between the number of months until the first rate hike is anticipated and the performance of the S&amp;P 500 (with scale inverted) is not nearly as tight as it is with bond yields, the relationship points more toward the year-over-year return on the S&amp;P 500 accelerating as the months tick down, rather than falling. We expect that while the S&amp;P 500 is unlikely to soar above the pace of gains seen in the past 12 months, the year ahead is likely to see solid gains. LPL FinancialOver the past 35 years, periods of rate hikes have been synchronized among the world’s central banks—especially between the United States and the United Kingdom, as you can see in Figure 3. The United Kingdom provides a current example of stocks performing well ahead of an anticipated initial rate hike. The Bank of England is widely expected to be the first major central bank to hike rates, raising them from the 0.5% they have maintained for over five years, and the FTSE 100 Index has still posted modest gains so far this year. LPL Financial As the countdown of the months to an initial rate hike continues, stocks may perform well using history and current comparisons with anticipated actions from other central banks as a guide. However, those sectors more sensitive to rising interest rates may lag the overall market. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
CNBCCNBC/Institutional Investor will host the fourth Delivering Alpha conference at the Pierre Hotel in Midtown Manhattan.  The annual event brings together some of the sharpest minds in the hedge fund industry as well as big-name regulators.  This year's line-up includes hedge-fund heavyweights like John Paulson, Leon Cooperman, and Ken Griffin. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew and New Jersey Governor Chris Christie will also be in attendance.  Here's a rundown of how last year's stock picks did since the 2013 conference:  Of course, the conference isn't just about stock picks. The panelists talk global macro and industry trends, etc.  FREE AppDownload
Kevin Lamarque/ReutersElizabeth Warren just destroyed Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen over JPMorgan's "living will." In the Dodd-Frank Act, there is a provision, known as a living will, that must describe a company's strategy for, "rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure of the company." This provision comes out of the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy, which triggered the financial crisis and took three years to resolve. Warren has some concerns regarding JPMorgan's living will, which she notes has been approved each of the last years. Compared to JPMorgan, Warren said Lehman was "tiny." Warren noted that at the time of its bankruptcy, Lehman had $639 billion in assets; today, JPMorgan has nearly $2.5 trillion in assets. Warren also said that Lehman had 209 subsidiaries when it failed; today, JPMorgan has 3,391 subsidiaries, or more than 15 times the number Lehman had when it went under.  Before delivering the stat about how many subsidiaries JPMorgan has, Warren said, "I almost couldn't believe this when I read it." In response, Yellen said the Fed is continuing to work with firms to give them feedback regarding their plans, a response Warren wasn't thrilled with, asking Yellen, "[Has JPMorgan] ever gotten to a plan, which you can stay with a straight face, is credible?" Yellen's response: "I've understood this to be a process, these are extremely complex documents to produce. In our second round of submission, we're looking at plans that run into tens of thousands of pages." This didn't really cut it with Warren either. As the most junior member of the Senate Banking Committee, Warren asked Yellen questions last, and was left to conclude with: "I think the language in the [Dodd-Frank] statute is pretty clear. That you are required, that the Fed is required to call it every year on whether these institutions have a credible plan. And I remind you, there are vey effective tools that you can use if those plans are not credible. Including, forcing these financial institutions to simplify their structure, or forcing them to liquidate some of their assets. In other words, break them up." Warren has long been critical of Wall Street and particularly of the size of big banks. Following nearly two hours of questions that danced around the issues we hear all the time such as: when will the taper end, when will rates rise, what's the deal with the labor market, Warren finished the proceedings with a pointed question regarding a specific provision in Dodd-Frank. Our guess is that Yellen wasn't too upset the hearing ended when it did. Here's the relevant seven-minute clip from C-SPAN, which is well worth watching.  FREE AppDownload
Julia La Roche for BIThe World Series of Poker (WSOP) was going on at the Rio Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas, and we've been highlighting our favorite play every day. So of course we've got to set you up for the main event. According to the WSOP blog, the final table has officially been set with the "November Nine" — the last nine players left. The players will be back in action come November for the conclusion of the 2014 World Series of Poker Main Event, but for now let's meet the line up. William PappaconstantinouUnknown player prior to the 2014 WSOP Main event. He's actually a world-recognized foosball champion.Country: USAChip Count: 17.5 millionTotal live tournament cashes: $16,379 Felix StephensenAlso unknown player. Has only earned two cashes prior to this tournament.Country: NorwayChip Count: 32.775 millionTotal live tournament cashes: $22,118 Jorryt van HoofWinner of Utrecht Series of Poker in 2013.Country: NetherlandsChip Count: 38.375 millionTotal live tournament cashes: $358,580 Mark NewhouseFirst player to make it to the November Nine back-to-back. Finished in 9th place in the 2013 WSOP Main Event.Country: USAChip Count: 26 millionTotal live tournament cashes: $2.776 million Andoni LarrabeWon PokerStars Caribbean Adventure side event in January 2013. He's the youngest player remaining.Country: SpainChip Count: 22.55 millionTotal live tournament cashes: $341,266 William TonkingMakes a living as an online cash game player.Country: USAChip Count: 15.05 millionTotal live tournament cashes: $93,306 Dan SindelarWinner of $1,080 No Limit Hold 'Em Championship Event at Canterbury Park Card Club in 2007.Country: USAChip Count: 21.2 millionTotal live tournament cashes: $527,779 Martin JacobsonFinished in 2nd place in the European Poker Tour Main Event in Deauville.Country: SwedenChip Count: 14.9 millionTotal live tournament cashes: $ 4.8 million Bruno Politano:First Brazilian to ever make to the WSOP Main Event final table. 2nd place in Brazilian Series of Poker Main Event.Country: BrazilChip Count: 12.125 millionTotal live tournament cashes: $110,054 We'll be back in the action on November 10, 2014 to see who will win the guaranteed first place prize of $10 million. Source: WSOP, Pocket Fives FREE AppDownload
Property24.comIn Capetown, South Africa, $1 million goes a pretty long way.A million-dollar home sounds like a major luxury. But $1 million buys something vastly different in cities around the world. In New York City, for example, where the median home sale price is $1.2 million, a million bucks buys a decent one-bedroom apartment. In Buenos Aires, on the other hand, it buys a four-bedroom pad in a fancy neighborhood. Our friends at Point2Homes helped us find properties in major cities across the world for around $1 million U.S. They range from small flats to spacious houses.  FREE AppDownload
John Phillips / Stringer / Getty ImagesCORRECTION: Barclays just revised its GDP estimate a full percentage point downward, to 3% from 4%.  However, it now sees its 2014 real GDP forecast at 1.6%, up from 1.4%. Earlier we'd reported there was an upward revision. "We have revised our Q2 14 US real GDP forecast to 3.0% from 4.0%," the bank said. "This change moves our forecast in line with our GDP tracking estimate, which stands at 3.0% after the June retail sales and May business inventories reports." This morning we learned that U.S. retail sales growth in June came in below expectations, climbing just 0.2% compared with economists forecasts for 0.6% growth. Excluding autos and gas, sales increased by 0.4%, which was a hair below expectations for 0.5% growth. But those who have looked beyond the headline numbers aren't worried. First, the prior month's growth numbers were revised up significantly. Sales actually jumped 0.5% in May versus an earlier reading of 0.3%. Excluding autos and gas, sales climbed by 0.3%, which compares to an earlier print of 0.0%. Second, the data's so-called control group, which the BEA uses to calculate GDP, climbed 0.6% against expectations for 0.5%. The BEA defines this as all sales excluding receipts from auto dealers, building materials retailers, gasoline stations, office supply stores, mobile homes, and tobacco stores. As a result, economists are revising their GDP estimates upward. Here's Barclays:  ...The [control group] gain in June was driven by discretionary categories such as general merchandise (1.1%), clothing (0.8%), sporting goods (0.6%), and non-store retailers (0.9%). The gain in core retail sales was revised higher in April (0.5% from 0.2%) and May (0.2% from 0.0%). The strength in core retail sales pushed our tracking estimate for Q2 14 real GDP growth to 3.0% from 2.7%.   Capital Economics has pretty much the exact same take: Stripping out gasoline, motor vehicles and building materials, sales actually increased by a pretty healthy 0.5% m/m in June. That suggests second-quarter real consumption was between 1.5% and 2.0% annualised, depending on what assumptions the BEA makes about health care consumption in the first estimate of second-quarter GDP. While consumption itself wasn't particularly strong, our calculations indicate that overall GDP growth was around 3.0%. And here's a chart from Bloomberg's Michael McDonough showing month-over-month growth in the control group (in gold), and it's three-month moving average (in black). The moving average hasn't been that impressive but has been consistently growing since 2010:  Michael McDonough FREE AppDownload
This morning, Janet Yellen warned that valuations of certain assets, especially small firms, social media stocks and biotech companies, are "substantially stretched." Although she was more sanguine about the broader stock market, it got some people thinking about the most famous instance of an explicit warning about market overheating: Alan Greenspan's "irrational exuberance" speech.  Delivered on December 5, 1996, Greenspan's full remarks, often misremembered, were actually rhetorical questions about the economy's ability absorb a collapse in asset prices caused by everyone realizing their exuberance had grown irrational.  Clearly, sustained low inflation implies less uncertainty about the future, and lower risk premiums imply higher prices of stocks and other earning assets. We can see that in the inverse relationship exhibited by price/earnings ratios and the rate of inflation in the past. But how do we know when irrational exuberance has unduly escalated asset values, which then become subject to unexpected and prolonged contractions as they have in Japan over the past decade? And how do we factor that assessment into monetary policy? We as central bankers need not be concerned if a collapsing financial asset bubble does not threaten to impair the real economy, its production, jobs, and price stability. Indeed, the sharp stock market break of 1987 had few negative consequences for the economy. But we should not underestimate or become complacent about the complexity of the interactions of asset markets and the economy. Thus, evaluating shifts in balance sheets generally, and in asset prices particularly, must be an integral part of the development of monetary policy. The thing is, it took more than four years for that collapse to come: From the date of the speech through the year 2000, the Dow climbed 81%, and the NASDAQ gained 200%. While his warnings proved useful, everyone had forgotten them by the time time the 2001-2002 recession rolled around.  Google Finance Let's see how long it takes for a correction to come this time. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jose Manuel RibeiroA man walks in front of a window of the headquarters of Portuguese bank Banco Espirito Santo in Lisbon July 21, 2010.According to a report from The Wall Street Journal Espirito Santo International's main unit, Rioforte, is preparing to file for creditor protection soon. The Journal cites a person familiar with the situation. Rioforte, The Journal notes, "holds assets ranging from real estate and hotels in Portugal and Brazil to a 49% stake in Espirito Santo Financial, which holds 20% of Banco Espirito Santo." Rioforte's creditor protection, which it filed for in Luxembourg, would allow it to sell assets and take steps to raise funds without creditor interference. Recall that last week, world markets were roiled after Banco Espirito Santo's parent company, Espirito Santo Financial, missed debt payments to "a few clients." Following this news, markets were concerned regarding potential contagion effects of this instability in the Portuguese financial market. The Journal's report also says that Espirito Santo International, "was found to be in serious financial condition following an audit by Portugal's central bank." During today's trading session in Lisbon, shares of Banco Espirito fell 14%.  These two charts give an outline of Espirito Santo Financial's banking and insurance unit structures, which is what Rioforte holds a 49% stake in. It's complicated. Espirito Santo Espirito Santo FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsEconomic growth in the developed world has been notably slower than in the 20th century. In the last few years, that slowing has spread to emerging markets. Is this the end of a 200-year trend of rapid human development, or is it a short-term fluctuation that we should not worry about? Growth may slow, as Robert Gordon contends, at least when measured by GDP – if only because population growth is slowing. But that is not a foregone conclusion. And even if it were to happen, it doesn't mean that global standards of living would face a similar deceleration. Moreover, GDP doesn’t fully capture the improvements in the standard of living that come with advanced technology. Most economic historians expect continued robust growth propelled by technological progress, but some economists, including Northwestern University’s Gordon, are not so sure. I examined this question in Advisor Perspectives last year in The Prospects for Long-Term Growth: A Critique of Grantham and Gordon. Now, in the light of a friendly feud between Gordon and his campus colleague Joel Mokyr, publicized in The Wall Street Journal on June 15, 2014, I take another look. Gordon, a macroeconomist, believes that six headwinds make further economic growth much more difficult, while Mokyr, a highly respected economic historian who also teaches at Northwestern, thinks that the best years of the human race are yet to come. Before getting into the details, it’s worth pointing out that no growth rate can continue forever. Jeremy Grantham of GMO is fond of pointing out that if an ancient Egyptian consumed one cubic yard of physical materials (a reasonable amount by today’s standards) per year in 1000 B.C. and his consumption grew at only 2% per year (roughly the rate of per-capita consumption growth in the developed world in the last 200 years), the Egyptian would be consuming more than the volume of the planet each year by the present time. Such expansion can only continue for a finite amount of time, if consumption of physical materials is what we are talking about. (Mokyr asserts that it is not. Economic growth means a reduction in the effort needed to produce a unit of utility, he says, not necessarily an increase in the consumption of physical materials.) For reference, Exhibit 1 shows U.S. real per-capita GDP (the best available measure of economic productivity) from 1789 to 2012. The long-term growth rate is 1.8% per year, and growth has recently been slower.  Source: William F. Sharpe, P. Brett Hammond, Martin L. Leibowitz and Laurence B. Siegel. "The Equity Risk Premium." Presentation at the Q Group, Dana Point, CA, Oct. 16, 2012.  Mokyr summarizes Gordon’s views as follows: “The low-hanging fruit has been picked, because we won't invent indoor plumbing again.” Nor will we again invent the railroad, the telephone, the electrical grid, the automobile, the airplane or the computer, emphasizes Gordon. Gordon echoes, “The rapid progress made over the past 250 years could well turn out to be a unique episode in human history.”1 Well, I agree. Nothing like it has ever happened before, and now that the basic tools of modern life have been invented, it does not have to and cannot happen again. The first take-off into sustained economic development is, by definition, unique in history. But what is next? Gordon argues that improvements will be successively smaller as we refine our knowledge and skill but fail to make fantastic new breakthroughs. He has also written about the six headwinds that make it difficult, in the U.S. especially, to make further rapid economic progress: demography, educational shortcomings, inequality, globalization, energy and environmental constraints and the overhang of consumer and government debt. Gordon concludes that consumption per capita is likely to grow at a rate as slow as 0.5% per year “for an extended period of decades.”2 I believe some of the headwinds are a real concern. The aging of the population will make labor (and tax dollars extracted from it) scarcer. The root causes of aging, however, are longevity and a low birth rate, which, in my 2012 essay, Fewer, Richer, Greener, I argued are huge positives for the economy and environment. I am concerned that entitlement spending is crowding out valuable infrastructure projects. We need to educate and train low- and middle-skilled workers. But Mokyr, in an extensive interview with Russ Roberts, host of the web site econtalk.org,3 counters that there are also tailwinds. Mokyr notes that we faced headwinds in the 20th century as well – communism, fascism, the possibility of nuclear war and a population explosion – and had the most economically successful century in history. He attributes this success to basic discoveries in the natural sciences, a view that sets Mokyr apart from many colleagues, who credit engineering, entrepreneurship and capital accumulation. What are the tailwinds? Mokyr doesn’t enumerate them, but I can think of a half dozen: Most of these have barely begun to be exploited. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
YouTubeThomas Laresca, a 52-year-old market-maker and father of three, said he lost his Wall Street job because of CYNK Technology — a penny stock that's shocked the internet with its 25,000% rise in just a few weeks. CYNK Technology is connected to a "social network" site called Introbiz that purports to help people connect to celebrities and business leaders for a fee. However, CYNK does not appear to have ever had assets, revenue, or more than one employee. It has also been a mystery who is behind the company. CYNK's surging stock drew the attention of the SEC, which halted trading in the stock last Friday citing "concerns regarding the accuracy and adequacy of information in the marketplace and potentially manipulative transactions in CYNK's common stock." The SEC's move was too late for Laresca, who is now critical of the regulatory agency for being too late to act on CYNK. Laresca, who first shared his story with Bloomberg News, told us on Tuesday that he resigned from his job as a market-maker with Buckman, Buckman &amp; Reid after racking up "insurmountable" losses from shorting CYNK. As a market-maker, Laresca's job is to provide liquidity and help match up buyers and sellers of stocks.  Laresca said he watched CYNK go from six cents to $6. Laresca, who has spent 25 years on Wall Street, told us that he thought the stock was a "scam." He shorted the stock thinking the SEC would step in.  "I'd be glad to sell some," he recalled. "When you sell it, you're caught in it." Eventually, he got caught in a short squeeze as the stock continued to skyrocket. That's because market-makers have to buy back shares every five days, which sends the stock price higher, he explained. "The day it went from $5 to $15, I was short. The stock kept running. As it runs, there's nothing you can do. You're selling it." Eventually, his firm decided they didn't want the risk anymore, he said. As a result, he had to buy back the stock and that locked in a loss that was "insurmountable."  "[My firm] did what was right. They took the stock from me. I'm not allowed to trade anymore. I can't have any positions. I don't fault them. They are doing what they had to do."  If he stayed short, he thinks he would have been OK.  Now he's questioning the SEC and why they didn't halt the stock sooner. "I came home and was trying to explain [CYNK] to my oldest son; he's a smart kid. He'll be a senior at William &amp; Mary. That's when my 10-year-old jumped in and said it was a scam. If a 10-year-old knew it was a scam, why didn't the SEC know?"  He's also going to be looking for another job now. It's unclear if he'll stay in financial services. "It isn't the end of the world. I've been through cancer and things like that. You just pick your head up and know that God is going to do the right thing," said Laresca.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters/WikipediaOne57 (left) and Time Warner Center (right)What’s in vogue one moment is often passé the next — a maxim that holds true for luxury real estate. The gleaming towers that are now in fashion in Manhattan are edging out yesterday’s “it” buildings, attracting the high-end buyers who might otherwise have bought their predecessors, even when those “old” buildings debuted relatively recently. Which new developments are taking place of the old? This month, The Real Deal paired five new Manhattan construction projects with headline-generating buildings of 15 years vintage or less. Purely by being new, the latest projects can boast advantages like fresh finishes and more built-in technology. And in the eyes of a buyer, newer often equates to better. “Developers can make the new model even better based on what they know to be successful,” said Douglas Elliman broker Jessica Cohen, who has sold properties in several of the buildings on TRD’s list. To be sure, there are still plenty of deep-pocketed potential buyers for these “old” properties. Some might opt to purchase a resale because they can pay a lower price, for example, or to avoid waiting years for construction to be complete, brokers said. “The older buildings will also attract wealthy buyers, but those buyers are more likely to not be concerned with having the most sparkly thing on the block,” said Sofia Song, head of research and external affairs at the brokerage Urban Compass. The increased competition that brand-new buildings pose to their slightly older counterparts means it is taking longer for resale sellers (and their brokers) to unload units than they expect, said Jonathan Miller of real estate appraisal firm Miller Samuel. In addition, luxury resales are not seeing quite as astronomical a shift toward higher prices as the luxury new developments, according to Miller’s data. In 2014’s first quarter, the median price of luxury new development units rose 73 percent year-over-year, to $9.6 million. On the luxury resale side, meanwhile, the median price was up 39 percent year-over-year to $5.3 million, according to the data. “The challenge for older buildings is to look at their own identity,” said Town Residential broker Michelle Evi Bourgeois, who recently represented a buyer that went into contract for a $16.6 million unit at 551 West 21st Street, the under-construction, Norman Foster–designed Chelsea condo. “The management team should consider upgrading the lobby, the hallways and amenity spaces; make sure the doorman stands up straight; and consider rebranding. These things give the crucial first impression.” Not every 2000s-era super-luxury property has an immediate heir, at least not yet. The Zeckendorfs’ 15 Central Park West, for example, dominated the real estate headlines from 2007 to 2012, but it does not yet have a clear replacement building. Some point to One57 as the logical successor, but the Robert A.M. Stern-designed showpiece might also get some competition from another new work from the starchictect: Vornado Realty Trust’s 100-unit 220 Central Park South, which is slated to be one of the tallest residential buildings in the city at 1,031 feet when it opens in 2016. Pricing for the apartments is not yet available. Below are the match-ups making waves today. One57 vs. Time Warner CenterREUTERS/Mike SegarOne57While many consider One57 to be the prime successor to 15 Central Park West, sources told TRD that its most direct elder rival might be the Time Warner Center, based on sheer proximity. Extell’s 90-story, 57th-Street skyscraper is rising just blocks from Related Companies’ twin 80-story Time Warner Center, which opened at Columbus Circle in 2004. Four times between 2003 and 2009, the city’s priciest condo sale of the year was at the Time Warner Center, including a $43 million sale in 2003. But the building hasn’t claimed the priciest sale in the city in four years. Meanwhile, the 94-unit One57 — which launched sales in 2011 and is expected to open later this year — has two units in contract for more than $90 million, which would be a New York City condo-sale record. Some Time Warner Center owners may even be trading up into One57. Last month, a couple who lives on the 69th floor of the Time Warner Center’s Mandarin Oriental hotel paid $19.1 million for a condo on the 50th floor of One57, property records show. Yu-Ting and Yu-Wen Huang declined to comment on whether they plan to unload their Time Warner pad. Corcoran Group broker Carrie Chiang, who represented the Huangs in their Mandarin Oriental purchase, declined to comment about whether they plan to list their current home. A change in developers’ tactics in recent years may also be drawing high-end buyers to new buildings like One57. Nikki Field of Sotheby’s International Realty said several of her clients residing at the Time Warner Center, as well as across the street at Trump International Hotel &amp; Tower and 15 Central Park West, have opted to upgrade to One57. When those older buildings arrived on the scene, many buyers expected to replace all the finishes, she said. “Developers delivered moderate quality and low-cost finishes with the understanding that they would be replaced with personalized finishes,” Field said. But now, “in this era of 2014 billionaire buildings, purchasers often do not have the time and patience to rebuild a new home. Few will tolerate another year of customization time and they expect, demand and are paying for high-quality finishes.” There are other factors as well. The Time Warner Center offers amenities shared by both the guests at the Mandarin Oriental and the condo owners, whereas at One57 residents will have access to a 20,000-square-foot amenities floor (including a 65-foot pool and aquarium), separate from the niceties available to guests at the building’s Park Hyatt hotel, said Elliman broker Toni Haber, who has sold units in some of the city’s toniest buildings. Still, brokers say the Time Warner Center has several key features that will ensure it doesn’t lose its luster among über-wealthy buyers, such as its south-facing views and smaller floor plans. “A lot of buildings [like One57 or 432 Park] are not making the two-bedrooms or smaller units available that you do find at Time Warner,” said Brown Harris Stevens broker Kathy Sloane. In addition, in 2011, Related revamped the four-story indoor mall portion of Time Warner. Haber said resales at the Time Warner Center are “doing fantastic.” A five-bedroom condo sold for $30 million in March, while a three-bedroom closed for $15 million in April, according to StreetEasy. 56 Leonard vs. 101 Warren Street56 Leonard Tribeca56 Leonard StreetOnly a few years apart, these Tribeca condo buildings both made a splash when they debuted. Developer Edward Minskoff’s 101 Warren Street raked in $650 million in sales, selling out in 2010 after four years on the market. The 227-unit, 35-story property sits at the heart of a 1-million-square-foot mixed-use complex. But there’s a new shiny tower in the neighborhood. And 56 Leonard, a 145-unit, 60-story structure by Alexico Group and Hines, is the tallest residential building in Tribeca. Slated to open in 2016, the building set a then-Downtown record when an unidentified New York-based hedge-fund manager went into contract for a $47 million penthouse, the Wall Street Journal reported. “They have practically the same absorption rate,” Miller said, referring to the buildings’ respective sales. “When 101 Warren came online, it was one of the big success stories. It was well received as the new product in that location.” Elliman’s Haber said 101 Warren was a “pioneer in its day.” But, she said, its views can’t compare to those at 56 Leonard, which is nearly twice the height. Sales at 101 Warren have tamped down in the years since its heyday. In fact, of 11 active or in-contract listings on StreetEasy, six show price cuts, including the 5,769-square-foot duplex now offered for $30 million, a 14 percent drop from its original listing in August for $35 million. Haber said 56 Leonard feels more exclusive, in that all units are condos and feature a private terrace. At 101 Warren, there is a 132-unit rental component as well as shared amenity spaces, which Haber said tends to be a turn-off to the super rich. It does, however, have floor-to-ceiling windows and views of the Hudson River. But what cements 56 Leonard as the superior property, brokers said, is its Jenga-shaped, glassy design from Pritzker Prize-winning duo Herzog &amp; de Meuron. 551 West 21st Street vs. 100 11th Avenue Both of these angular, glass Chelsea condos were also born from the eye of a Pritzker Prize-winning starchitect. French architect Jean Nouvel designed the Cape Advisors-developed 100 11th Avenue, while Foster is behind 551 West 21st Street, which is being developed by real estate scion Scott Resnick. The condos are both located on the West Side Highway, roughly two blocks apart. Sales launched at the Foster building earlier this year, about seven years after the debut of the Nouvel tower, where the priciest unit sold for $19.75 million, records show. The top penthouse at the newer project, which has its own swimming pool on a 4,000 square-foot rooftop terrace, hit the market in April for $50 million. Buyers are drawn to the 11-foot-high ceilings, 34-foot-high lobby and gated car entry, brokers said. In addition, Foster designed both the exterior and the interior of the building. Town’s Bourgeois also pointed to the storm-resistant design as setting 551 West 21st Street apart from 100 11th Avenue. A gas-powered, rooftop emergency generator and metal barriers at the entrances are designed to protect the structure from damage in future storms, given its proximity to the Hudson River. “It would cost a lot to retrofit something like that,” Bourgeois said, referring to properties built before Hurricane Sandy that lack similar fortification. In addition to being the latest buzzworthy building in the area, the newer tower has a distinct leg up on its older competitor. While 100 11th Avenue sold out in 2011, it has taken heat for a slew of problems, including drainage issues connected to its iconic multi-colored mosaic glass façade and alleged inferior construction. A buyer who went into contract for a $24.5 million duplex in 2007 requested that the deposit be returned, alleging that the ceiling heights were 9.4 feet instead of the 11 feet they were promised. And Nouvel himself has publicly said that cost cutting by the developers went “off course.” 18 Gramercy Park vs. 50 Gramercy Park North18 Gramercy Park18 Gramercy ParkWhen it comes to floor plans and interior design, these Gramercy Park properties — located one street apart between Park and Lexington avenues — do not have much in common. But brokers say given their locations, high-profile developers and price points, they are playing in the same space. Both have 40 feet of frontage on Manhattan’s only private park, and come with coveted keys to the exclusive oasis. “They’re extremely different products, but they’re both the highest-priced on Gramercy Park,” Miller said. “They represent two different development boom eras.” Ian Schrager’s 50 Gramercy Park North launched sales in 2005, following a revamp of the stately 1925 landmark. It is the residential component of the Gramercy Park Hotel, the interiors of which artist and filmmaker Julian Schnabel helped design. Most of the apartments feature a fireplace and 12-foot ceilings, along with views of the park. The 17-story building is a condop sitting on leased ground — which therefore results in higher-than-normal monthly maintenance fees. John Burger of Brown Harris Stevens, one of the city’s top brokers, said he generally advises clients to avoid land-lease buildings because they have limited appreciation. Still, a three-bedroom penthouse in the building sold for $22 million in 2011, breaking a record at the time for priciest-ever sale of a home abutting the park, StreetEasy records show. The apartment was most recently listed for $14.9 million in 2013, but is no longer on the market and has not been sold, according to StreetEasy and property records. In addition, actress Jennifer Aniston bought a three-bedroom there for $9 million. Meanwhile, the Zeckendorfs’ posh new 18 Gramercy Park, an 18-story condo converted from 200 studio apartments, was designed by Stern and launched sales last year. A $42 million penthouse set a then-record for the most expensive condo Downtown when it sold to Houston Rockets owner Leslie Alexander. (The current record for a Downtown condo was set by Walker Tower in Chelsea when a unit there sold for $50.9 million.) Unlike 50 Gramercy Park North, 18 Gramercy features all full-floor units and is on the comparatively quieter south side of the park, said Burger, who represented former New Jersey Governor Jon Corzine’s ex-wife in her purchase of a $16.6 million sponsor unit at 18 Gramercy Park last year. Most of the apartments have four bedrooms and span at least 4,200 square feet. Asking prices range from $9 million to $18 million. Each unit also features about 2,000 square feet of terrace space. One Riverside Park vs. the AveryOne Riverside ParkOne Riverside Park Extell is going head-to-head with, well, Extell on the Upper West Side. The prolific developer is behind both buildings in TRD’s final match-up: The Avery, which it sold out in 2006, and One Riverside Park, which it launched last year. Units at the 32-story Avery, a 274-unit tower at 100 Riverside Boulevard, had an average sales price of $1,350 per square foot when the building sold out, according to news reports. The property has drawn buyers for its in-house theater, parking garage, library and private courtyard. The Avery was Extell’s first building along Riverside Boulevard. The developer is also responsible for other nearby condos such as the Rushmore and the Aldyn, which fetched similar prices. Now, the developer is aiming to out-Extell itself. The first batch of the 219 units at the 35-story One Riverside Park hit the market last year, until Extell chief Gary Barnett halted further sales pending an upward price adjustment. Average asking prices there exceed $2,000 per square foot. Over eight years, Extell has evolved further and learned what worked and what did not, said Urban Compass’ Song. The new building offers access to 40,000 square feet of amenities, a glassier exterior and “more generous” room sizes than the Avery does, she said. “The Avery pushed the envelope at the time, with respect to pricing,” Miller said. “It was a hot building, while One Riverside Park is something new that hopes to be hot.” FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim BourgU.S. Federal Reserve Board Chair Janet Yellen is reflected in the decorative cover over her food at a working lunch.Stocks were mixed in a session that saw Fed Chair Janet Yellen speak on Capitol Hill, while two major U.S. banks also reported earnings and retail sales for June were a bit below expectations. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: 1) Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen was on Capitol Hill, giving prepared remarks and answering questions from members of the Senate Banking Committee. Some of the notable commentary out of Yellen's prepared remarks were comments on the labor market, which said that, "significant slack" remains in labor markets, indicated by the slow pace of wage growth. Yellen also noted that low interest rates have provided incentives for some investors to "reach for yield," and that valuations appear stretched in some sectors, such as "lower-rated corporate debt." 2) In a full report delivered to lawmakers, the Federal Reserve singled out, "smaller firms in the social media and biotechnology industries," as pockets of the market where valuations seem, "substantially stretched." The market weakened a bit in late morning trade as investors digested the release from the Fed, but as people began to read Yellen's commentary in the context of the day's broader message, which reiterated that rates will remain lower for longer even after the economy "normalizes," the markets erased some of their early losses. The Nasdaq, which houses many of the social media and biotech names that many saw as the target of Yellen's warnings, was the worst performing index today. 3) Before Yellen's testimony, the Census reported June retail sales that grew 0.2% over last month, missing economists' expectations for sales to grow 0.6%. Excluding autos and gas, however, retail sales grew 0.4%. Economists expected this measure to expand 0.5%. May's retail sales were also revised up to growing 0.5% from a prior reading of 0.3%. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "In one line: Solid. The details are better than the headline... The trend is core sales is solid, with the y/y rate at 4.2% in Q2, but a further acceleration likely will require faster wage gains. They're coming." 4) The July Empire Manufacturing index came in at 25.60 in July, better than 19.28 in June. Economists were expecting the index to decline to 17.0. According to the New York Fed, this was the reading's highest level in over four years. Following the report, Sam Coffin at UBS said, "The Empire State survey has generally appeared consistent with the rebound in growth and rebuilding of inventories that we see for Q2: its average level of 13.2 was the highest since [the first quarter of 2012]." 5) Before the market open, JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs both reported quarterly earnings, with both banks beating on the bottom line. JPMorgan reported Q2 earnings per share, excluding certain items of $1.46. Analysts were expecting earnings of $1.31. JPMorgan's revenue came in at $25.3 billion, and on the company's conference call, CEO Jamie Dimon, who a few weeks ago announced he had curable throat cancer, said he "feels great." 6) Goldman Sachs reported Q2 adjusted earnings per share of $4.10, topping expectations for earnings of $3.09. Revenue was $9.13 billion, also better than the $7.98 billion that was expected. Goldman's revenue in its fixed income, currency and commodities client execution segment were down 10% over last year, while revenues in equities were down 13%.  7) Things are still tough on Wall Street, and these two charts from JPMorgan's earnings presentations showed just how hard things were for traders in the second quarter. JPMorgan's markets revenue down 14% in Q2 (though the bank said in May that it could fall as much as 20%), while mortgage production fell 74% over last year.  8) Tobacco giants Reynolds American and Lorillard announced a $27.4 billion merger deal in which Reynolds would acquire Lorillard, as well as spin off some of its brands to British tobacco company Imperial Tobacco. Following the news, shares of Reynolds closed down nearly 7%, while Lorillard shares fell more than 10%. Don't Miss: Elizabeth Warren Destroys Janet Yellen Over JPMorgan's 'Living Will' » FREE AppDownload
Instagram/pavidaaaaThe World Series of Poker (WSOP) is currently going on at the Rio Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas, and we're highlighting our favorite play of the day. Yesterday, Poker News reported that Andrey Zaichenko moved all in before the flop with an A<U+2666> and J<U+2660>... only to realize that his opponent had a pair of eights (8<U+2663> 8<U+2665>). Even though Zaichenko was down, he could still win. But for now, all he could do was wait and watch the cards. The flop revealed a 2<U+2660> 3<U+2660> Q<U+2660>. Although this wasn't an Ace or Jack, these cards increased Zaichenko's odds of winning. Now, if either of the next two cards was a X<U+2660> he would complete a flush. The next card was a K<U+2665>. Again, although not great card, this also increased Zaichenko's odds. Now, if there was any kind of 10 on the river, Zaichenko would get a straight. However, having good odds, doesn't always mean you'll get the win. And Zaichenko lucked out. The last card was a 9<U+2660>, which gave Zaichenko the flush on the river. Later on in the day, Zaichenko was officially out. He finished in 17th place. Additional WSOP News: The last bracelet winner still left — Luis Velador — is out. He finished in 10th place. Mark Newhouse made it to the November Nine for the second year in a row. Source: Poker News FREE AppDownload
Danny Chan/VFS Digital Design via Flickr   This position has been filled. See all available jobs at Business Insider here &gt;&gt;     We're looking for a hardworking individual with strong quantitative and analytical skills to join a growing team of analysts at Business Insider Intelligence. The candidate must also be an excellent writer. What Is BI Intelligence? BI Intelligence is a subscription research service from Business Insider that provides in-depth analysis and insights on the tech industry. We publish newsletters, news notes and in-depth reports as well as an exhaustive library of charts and data that help individual and corporate subscribers stay on top of key tech trends. The service, launched in 2012, has experienced rapid growth and has expanded from its original focus on mobile to cover additional tech-related topics, including digital payments, video, and e-commerce. This is an opportunity to join a team that's redefining what a professional tech research service can be. Check out BII here. What's The Job?  The ideal Research Analyst will have a deep interest in tech news and feel comfortable analyzing a wide range of tech-related topics, including social, mobile, e-commerce, digital marketing, and mobile payments. The Research Analyst will support the research team in data-related tasks. These will include: creating charts, curating and updating data sets, researching/sourcing data, and managing data and document production. Desired Skills And Experience The candidate will complement their strong data-processing ability with excellent writing skills. The ideal candidate would also have an interest in visual data presentation. After a training period, the candidate will be expected to independently produce full-length research reports of value to our members.   If this role is for you, here are some of the other traits you must possess: Skills: This role offers a unique opportunity to straddle the journalism and business/consulting worlds. It would be an excellent way to sharpen your skills before business school, or launching a career in digital media, research, or business journalism.  If interested, please submit your resume, a short cover letter and writing samples to us. Resumes submitted without work examples will not be considered. Thank you in advance.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERSHarvard University.Harvard University is the best university in the world, according to a new list from the Center for World University Rankings. The CWUR listed Harvard at the top of seven of its eight criteria, including quality of education, alumni employment, influence, and broad impact. Harvard ranked second in CWUR's patent list, while the Massachusetts Institute of Technology took the top spot. While the 2,000-university list represents schools from across the globe, eight of the CWUR's top 10 universities are in the U.S. The other two top 10 schools — the University of Cambridge and the University of Oxford — are in the U.K. The CWUR is based in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, and claims to be "the only global university ranking that measures the quality of education and training of students as well as the prestige of the faculty members and the quality of their research without relying on surveys and university data submissions." Here are the top 10 universities in the world, via the CWUR: And a more detailed look at the top 25 (click to enlarge):via CWURSee the full world university ranking at the CWUR &gt;&gt; FREE AppDownload
Kevin BaumanFederal Reserve chair Janet Yellen is delivering her semi-annual monetary policy report today.  In her prepared remarks, Yellen continued to warn about the lackluster recovery in the U.S. housing market. From the statement: "The housing sector, however, has shown little recent progress. While this sector has recovered notably from its earlier trough, housing activity leveled off in the wake of last year's increase in mortgage rates, and readings this year have, overall, continued to be disappointing." In her May testimony to the Joint Economic Committee, Yellen had warned that housing data had been disappointing and that the Fed would be watching housing data closely. "The recent flattening out in housing activity could prove more protracted than currently expected rather than resuming its earlier pace of recovery," she said. The latest housing data has been strong. Existing home sales, new home sales, pending home sales, and homebuilder confidence are all on an upswing. And there's been a lot of talk of a snapback in housing. Yellen evidently disagrees. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Allen BurtThe Financial District's Stone Street is usually crawling with people in finance. In New York City, things can get old pretty fast. So we've taken it upon ourselves to revamp last year's list of the most obnoxious Wall Street bars. Several have since closed, but many are still kicking and as annoying as ever. Frequented by financiers, these Manhattan bars are loud, rowdy, and ridiculous. If you're into sweaty crowds, flashing lights, or absurd conversations, it's time to scope some of these out. Otherwise, we've done the rounds on these bars so you don't have to. You're welcome. If we left out any of your favorites, let us know in the comments! FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstFederal Reserve Board Chair Janet Yellen is warning that social-media companies' share prices, and those of other high-flying stocks, are starting to defy gravity.  In her just-released full report to Congress on the state of monetary policy, the Fed chair says, "...Valuation metrics in some sectors do appear substantially stretched—particularly those for smaller firms in the social media and biotechnology industries, despite a notable downturn in equity prices for such firms early in the year." She actually mentions this twice in the report: "Equity valuations of smaller firms as well as social media and biotechnology firms appear to be stretched," she says, "with ratios of prices to forward earnings remaining high relative to historical norms." Shares in Facebook were down 1.7% Tuesday. Twitter was off 0.6%. Nasdaq's biotech ETF declined 1.5%. The broader Nasdaq is down 0.7%. Yellen is appearing before the Senate Tuesday morning. Despite her warnings on these momentum stocks, Yellen says the broader stock market is not overvalued. "Some broad equity price indexes have increased to all-time highs in nominal terms since the end of 2013. However, valuation measures for the overall market in early July were generally at levels not far above their historical averages, suggesting that, in aggregate, investors are not excessively optimistic regarding equities." Investors don't appear to be buying it: The entire market turned red after the report and full congressional testimony were released, with the S&amp;P500 off 0.23%, and the Dow down 0.05%.  She goes on to express concern about the increasing number of bets on junk debt but says there is no reason to believe the financial system couldn't handle a sudden rush out of the sector. "Signs of excesses that could lead to higher future defaults and losses have emerged in some sectors, including for speculative-grade corporate bonds and leveraged loans," she says in the report. "At the same time, financial  firms’ use of short-term wholesale funding  has not increased materially and the capital  and liquidity position of the banking sector  continued to improve." FREE AppDownload
ReutersA man buys a ticket for a Long Island Rail Road train at Pennsylvania Station in New York July 14, 2014. Talks to avert a Long Island Rail Road strike broke down on Monday and the unions representing workers at the country's largest commuter railroad said they were proceeding with plans to strike on Sunday. MINEOLA, N.Y. (AP) — Pessimism grew about the prospects of a strike at the nation's largest commuter railroad this weekend after union negotiators said Monday that talks had collapsed amid a dispute over whether future Long Island Rail Road employees should be required to contribute to their health insurance and pensions. A walkout, which the unions said they were planning at 12:01 a.m. next Sunday, would affect 300,000 daily riders who travel in and out of New York City from Long Island. Metropolitan Transportation Authority Chairman and CEO Thomas Prendergast said after talks abruptly ended following a 45-minute session in Manhattan that he was open to further negotiations aimed at preventing a strike, but said unions were unwilling to yield on the issue of making future LIRR employees contribute to their health plans and pensions. He said the MTA needs to realize savings in any agreement to avoid potential fare increases in the future. A round-trip peak ticket from central Nassau County to Manhattan currently costs $25 a day; an unlimited trip monthly ticket is $276. The railroad's unions have been working without a contract since 2010. President Barack Obama appointed two emergency boards to help resolve the dispute, but the MTA rejected both non-binding recommendations. Gov. Andrew Cuomo indicated previously that he would not intervene in the dispute. He did not immediately comment on the unions' announcement that talks had collapsed. Mayor Bill de Blasio said he was still planning to go on vacation at the end of the week. The emergency board's last proposal called for a 17 percent raise over six years while leaving work rules and pensions alone. The MTA offered a 17 percent wage increase over seven years and also is seeking concessions including requiring current employees to contribute 2 percent of regular pay toward health care costs and pensions. Anthony Simon, the workers' chief negotiator, said the MTA continues to "insist the unions agree to a contract worth less than the value of the compromise recommendations of two Presidential Emergency Boards." "The MTA has failed miserably in proving to anyone that their finances are in a place where they cannot afford this contract and prevent a strike," he added in a statement. The MTA last week released a contingency plan that includes shuttling commuters by school bus from selected LIRR stations to subway stops in New York City, and opening several large park-and-ride parking lots, but officials concede a strike would snarl traffic throughout the region and create a commuting nightmare for millions. The MTA and others have also advocated that employees work from home via computer if their employers permit telecommuting. Ethan Seatts, a Brooklyn man who said he uses the LIRR several times a week, said at Penn Station that the contingency plan appeared to be lacking. "It's like putting a Band-Aid on a bullet hole," he said. "It will help some, but it won't solve the problem. It will be miserable standing up on a bus like sardines." Rep. Steve Israel, a Long Island Democrat, said the breakdown in the talks was "frustrating. Both sides claim they are not as far away as it looks. I don't know if they are playing the clock, but they can't play with commuters. We need certainty." Israel urged both sides to return to the negotiating table and said not to count on Congress to resolve the dispute. "If they're putting their eggs in the Congress basket, it's not a very tenable basket," he said. The president of the Long Island Association — the region's largest business group — said he was hopeful that both sides would eventually return to the negotiating table. "We still have almost a week to go," Kevin Law said. "It's not unusual for management and labor to have their ups and downs until a deal is struck. I hope they get back to the table and strike a deal because a strike would be crippling to our economy." ___ Blidner reported from New York City. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr / FaceMePLSSome people get attached to their stock. They fall in love with it when it performs well, and refuse to let it go when it becomes a loser. Don’t. There’s a rule in my office that reminds me to avoid this mistake: “I married my wife, but I only date my stocks.” Like a bad relationship, there might come a time when dumping the stock is just the right choice, no matter how much you love it. June was very special for my family. My wife’s parents, Ed and Marilyn Birt, celebrated their 50th wedding anniversary. With such extraordinarily high divorce rates in our society, I am very proud and honored to witness their commitment to one another through trials and joys of life. In a marriage, you face the ups and downs together along the way, but in the investment world, you don’t have to hold on to your stock through thick and thin. Interestingly enough, some people stick to their investments for sentimental reasons as if they were in a marriage. For years, I watch people become obsessed with owning stock from companies like General Motors (GM), Eli Lilly (LLY), or Caterpillar (CAT). They have the stock for so long that it’s like family, or they have a strong love for the company, its executive team or the product. Sometimes, they inherited the stock, and treat it like Grandpa’s pocket watch — something to be put away in a drawer, treasured but taken for granted. Reluctance to part with a stock is part of what’s called Prospect Theory, which holds that people fear losses more than they value gains. Developed by psychologist Daniel Kahneman, this explains why investors keep laggard stocks around for years, even when their inadequacy is obvious. I understand people who feel the need for loyalty to a company, but the commitment was to the company, not the investment. For example, I used to own both a Harley Davidson motorcycle and the company stock. When the stock price showed weakness, we parted ways. I still have my bike and the good memories on it. Selling the stock doesn’t change its value to me. I remain a loyal customer for years. Historically speaking, most stock prices have periods of rapid growth at different stages of business development. What you should do is to place your commitment in the right place and for the right reason. Don’t get blinded by the love for a product or the company itself. If a stock has no more upside potential, you move on. And the best part of this relationship is that there’s no hard feeling about the breakup. You can always come back when things are sunnier. This article originally appeared at AdviceIQ.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
ScreenshotFederal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen still sees a lot of slack in the labor market. Yellen is delivering her semiannual monetary policy report before the Senate Banking Committee.  Some notable excerpts from Yellen's prepared testimony include these on the labor market: "Labor force participation appears weaker than one would expect based on the aging of the population and the level of unemployment. These and other indications that significant slack remains in labor markets are corroborated by the continued slow pace of growth in most measures of hourly compensation." Regarding the current market environment: "The Committee recognizes that low interest rates may provide incentives for some investors to 'reach for yield,' and those actions could increase vulnerabilities in the financial system to adverse events. While prices of real estate, equities, and corporate bonds have risen appreciably and valuation metrics have increased, they remain generally in line with historical norms. In some sectors, such as lower-rated corporate debt, valuations appear stretched and issuance has been brisk." These are Yellen's first comments since her press conference on June 18, which followed the latest FOMC meeting. In response to a question regarding interest rate increases from Senator Mike Crapo, Yellen declined to give to a specific time frame. Yellen said, "there is no formula and no mechanical answer" about when the first rate increase will occur.  Referencing the economic projections from FOMC members, Yellen noted that all members saw interest rates increasing next year, but emphasized that these are personal views and not policy projections.  Yellen said that the RRP facility, or reverse-repo counterparties rate, is a "backup tool" and that interest rates will be the Fed's primary policy tool going forward. With regard to the labor market, Yellen said that Fed's policy tools can't necessarily impact employment at the state level, and conceded that the Fed's policy has limits on its effect on long-term unemployment.  "While long-term unemployment remains at exceptionally high levels and is a grave concern, I do think we are seeing some improvements," Yellen said. Yellen said that fiscal policy has been a "significant drag" on the economic recovery.  With respect to the labor force participation rate, Yellen said that her personal view some demographic factors are at play. Regarding the unemployment rate, Yellen stated that 6.5% has "never" been the FOMC's target, and reiterated that what "full employment" entails isn't necessarily a certain threshold but a variety of factors. When pressed by Senator Menendez for what fiscal policy could do to reduce economic headwinds, Yellen again reiterated that it has been a drag on growth, but deferred what the "appropriate priorities" are is Congress' responsibility.  Yellen said, with respect to future quantitative easing programs, The Washington Post's Ylan Mui reported Yellen said, "I wouldn't take it off the table forever... but my hope is that we're on a path to recovery." Yellen said it's important for a central bank to act in a systematic and deliberate way, but said that it would be a mistake to ask the Fed to specify a numerical rule for policy.  Regarding the loan market, Yellen said that "we are seeing a deterioration in lending standards." Senator Elizabeth Warren concluded the Q&amp;A, pressing Yellen on the size of JPMorgan, which Warren noted has 3,391 subsidiaries, and questioned whether the Fed could wind down the bank in an orderly fashion in the event of an adverse scenario.  Here are Yellen's complete prepared remarks: Chairman Johnson, Ranking Member Crapo, and members of the Committee, I am pleased to present the Federal Reserve's semiannual Monetary Policy Report to the Congress. In my remarks today, I will discuss the current economic situation and outlook before turning to monetary policy. I will conclude with a few words about financial stability. The economy is continuing to make progress toward the Federal Reserve's objectives of maximum employment and price stability. In the labor market, gains in total nonfarm payroll employment averaged about 230,000 per month over the first half of this year, a somewhat stronger pace than in 2013 and enough to bring the total increase in jobs during the economic recovery thus far to more than 9 million. The unemployment rate has fallen nearly 1-1/2 percentage points over the past year and stood at 6.1 percent in June, down about 4 percentage points from its peak. Broader measures of labor utilization have also registered notable improvements over the past year. Real gross domestic product (GDP) is estimated to have declined sharply in the first quarter. The decline appears to have resulted mostly from transitory factors, and a number of recent indicators of production and spending suggest that growth rebounded in the second quarter, but this bears close watching. The housing sector, however, has shown little recent progress. While this sector has recovered notably from its earlier trough, housing activity leveled off in the wake of last year's increase in mortgage rates, and readings this year have, overall, continued to be disappointing. Although the economy continues to improve, the recovery is not yet complete. Even with the recent declines, the unemployment rate remains above Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) participants' estimates of its longer-run normal level. Labor force participation appears weaker than one would expect based on the aging of the population and the level of unemployment. These and other indications that significant slack remains in labor markets are corroborated by the continued slow pace of growth in most measures of hourly compensation. Inflation has moved up in recent months but remains below the FOMC's 2 percent objective for inflation over the longer run. The personal consumption expenditures (PCE) price index increased 1.8 percent over the 12 months through May. Pressures on food and energy prices account for some of the increase in PCE price inflation. Core inflation, which excludes food and energy prices, rose 1.5 percent. Most Committee participants project that both total and core inflation will be between 1-1/2 and 1-3/4 percent for this year as a whole. Although the decline in GDP in the first quarter led to some downgrading of our growth projections for this year, I and other FOMC participants continue to anticipate that economic activity will expand at a moderate pace over the next several years, supported by accommodative monetary policy, a waning drag from fiscal policy, the lagged effects of higher home prices and equity values, and strengthening foreign growth. The Committee sees the projected pace of economic growth as sufficient to support ongoing improvement in the labor market with further job gains, and the unemployment rate is anticipated to continue to decline toward its longer-run sustainable level. Consistent with the anticipated further recovery in the labor market, and given that longer-term inflation expectations appear to be well anchored, we expect inflation to move back toward our 2 percent objective over coming years. As always, considerable uncertainty surrounds our projections for economic growth, unemployment, and inflation. FOMC participants currently judge these risks to be nearly balanced but to warrant monitoring in the months ahead. I will now turn to monetary policy. The FOMC is committed to policies that promote maximum employment and price stability, consistent with our dual mandate from the Congress. Given the economic situation that I just described, we judge that a high degree of monetary policy accommodation remains appropriate. Consistent with that assessment, we have maintained the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and have continued to rely on large-scale asset purchases and forward guidance about the future path of the federal funds rate to provide the appropriate level of support for the economy. In light of the cumulative progress toward maximum employment that has occurred since the inception of the Federal Reserve's asset purchase program in September 2012 and the FOMC's assessment that labor market conditions would continue to improve, the Committee has made measured reductions in the monthly pace of our asset purchases at each of our regular meetings this year. If incoming data continue to support our expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and inflation moving back toward 2 percent, the Committee likely will make further measured reductions in the pace of asset purchases at upcoming meetings, with purchases concluding after the October meeting. Even after the Committee ends these purchases, the Federal Reserve's sizable holdings of longer-term securities will help maintain accommodative financial conditions, thus supporting further progress in returning employment and inflation to mandate-consistent levels. The Committee is also fostering accommodative financial conditions through forward guidance that provides greater clarity about our policy outlook and expectations for the future path of the federal funds rate. Since March, our postmeeting statements have included a description of the framework that is guiding our monetary policy decisions. Specifically, our decisions are and will be based on an assessment of the progress--both realized and expected--toward our objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. Our evaluation will not hinge on one or two factors, but rather will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation and long-term inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. Based on its assessment of these factors, in June the Committee reiterated its expectation that the current target range for the federal funds rate likely will be appropriate for a considerable period after the asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal and provided that inflation expectations remain well anchored. In addition, we currently anticipate that even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the federal funds rate below levels that the Committee views as normal in the longer run. Of course, the outlook for the economy and financial markets is never certain, and now is no exception. Therefore, the Committee's decisions about the path of the federal funds rate remain dependent on our assessment of incoming information and the implications for the economic outlook. If the labor market continues to improve more quickly than anticipated by the Committee, resulting in faster convergence toward our dual objectives, then increases in the federal funds rate target likely would occur sooner and be more rapid than currently envisioned. Conversely, if economic performance is disappointing, then the future path of interest rates likely would be more accommodative than currently anticipated. The Committee remains confident that it has the tools it needs to raise short-term interest rates when the time is right and to achieve the desired level of short-term interest rates thereafter, even with the Federal Reserve's elevated balance sheet. At our meetings this spring, we have been constructively working through the many issues associated with the eventual normalization of the stance and conduct of monetary policy. These ongoing discussions are a matter of prudent planning and do not imply any imminent change in the stance of monetary policy. The Committee will continue its discussions in upcoming meetings, and we expect to provide additional information later this year. The Committee recognizes that low interest rates may provide incentives for some investors to "reach for yield," and those actions could increase vulnerabilities in the financial system to adverse events. While prices of real estate, equities, and corporate bonds have risen appreciably and valuation metrics have increased, they remain generally in line with historical norms. In some sectors, such as lower-rated corporate debt, valuations appear stretched and issuance has been brisk. Accordingly, we are closely monitoring developments in the leveraged loan market and are working to enhance the effectiveness of our supervisory guidance. More broadly, the financial sector has continued to become more resilient, as banks have continued to boost their capital and liquidity positions, and growth in wholesale short-term funding in financial markets has been modest. In sum, since the February Monetary Policy Report, further important progress has been made in restoring the economy to health and in strengthening the financial system. Yet too many Americans remain unemployed, inflation remains below our longer-run objective, and not all of the necessary financial reform initiatives have been completed. The Federal Reserve remains committed to employing all of its resources and tools to achieve its macroeconomic objectives and to foster a stronger and more resilient financial system. Thank you. I would be pleased to take your questions. FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Larry DowningJPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon addressed his throat cancer on the bank's second quarter earnings call this morning. Earlier this month, Dimon disclosed that he had treatable throat cancer located adjacent the lymph nodes on the right side of his neck. "I know some of you have questions about my recent cancer diagnosis," Dimon began. "I want to thank everybody for the calls, notes and good wishes. I feel great. I think I have some of the best doctors in the world. I'm very fortunate that this is curable." He noted that the cancer has not spread and that there is no evidence of it anywhere else in his body.  He will be undergoing chemo and radiation therapy. He said this is standard the prognosis is "excellent."  Dimon continued that the board will be fully briefed on his condition.  "If they fell it's necessary to make additional disclosures we will do that," he said. He said the next disclosure will be in 7 or 8 weeks adding "I'm feeling better."  Dimon said that he plans to be actively involved in managing the business at JPMorgan throughout his treatment. He added that he has been advised by doctors that he will need to take rest.  "It doesn't mean I won't work," he said, adding that he would give the exact same advice to friends, family and if anyone else came down with this. The succession plan is the exact same as it was before, he noted. Dimon explained that the board has plans in place that they talk about "all the time" if there's ever a scenario where it would have to be used.  FREE AppDownload
NY FedThe July Empire Manufacturing report was much stronger than expected. The headline index unexpectedly jumped to 25.60 in July from 19.28 in June. According to the New York Fed, this is the highest level in over four years. Economists estimated the number would decline to 17.0. From the NY Fed: The new orders index was little changed at 18.8, while the shipments index rose nine points to 23.6; both indexes were at multiyear highs. The unfilled orders index fell six points to -6.8. The indexes for both prices paid and prices received were higher this month, indicating a pickup in the pace of price increases. Labor market conditions continued to improve, with indexes pointing to a solid increase in employment levels and a slight increase in hours worked. Although many of the indexes for the six-month outlook were significantly lower, conditions overall were expected to continue improving in the months ahead. "The Empire State survey has generally appeared consistent with the rebound in growth and rebuilding of inventories that we see for Q2: its average level of 13.2 was the highest since Q1 12," said UBS's Sam Coffin. FREE AppDownload
Matt Cardy/Getty ImagesJune retail sales grew 0.2%. Excluding autos and gas, sales grew 0.4%. Economists expected sales to grow 0.6% over last month and by 0.5% excluding autos and gas. In May, retail sales grew 0.3% and excluding autos and gas, sales were flat. Here's a chart from the Census showing the segment change by month.  Census.gov And in table form. Census.gov The May report was also revised up, to 0.5% growth over April from a prior reading of 0.3%.  This report is a huge barometer for how things are going for the U.S. consumer after we heard some less than encouraging commentary from retailers last week. Last week, Container Store CEO Kip Tindell said that, "Consistent with so many of our fellow retailers, we are experiencing a retail 'funk.'" Tindell added that, "While consumers are buying homes and automobiles and even high ticket furniture, most segments of retail are, like us, seeing more challenging sales than we had hoped early in 2014 – so we’re not alone in this." Later in the week, hardwood flooring retailer Lumber Liquidators said that the customer demand it experienced in mid-March didn't carry into May, with June weakening further. Family Dollar also reported disappointing quarterly earnings, as same store sales fell 1.8% at the discount retailer. Family Dollar CEO Howard Levine said, "Our results continue to reflect the economic challenges facing our core customer and an intense competitive environment."  And then last Thursday, Gap reported June same store sales that fell 2%. In this week's Monday Scouting Report, BI's Sam Ro highlighted comments from Wells Fargo's John Silvia ahead of the report. "Vehicle sales continued to strengthen in the month, which should apply upward pressure to retail sales," said Silvia. "Gains are likely to be broad-based as well. Chain store sales posted a relatively large gain in June, and consumer confidence has reached its highest level in more than six years. Consumer prices also made solid gains in the month, which should push the headline number higher." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorA waiter smokes as he takes a break from work in the city of London.(Reuters) - Reynolds American Inc &lt;RAI.N&gt; said it would buy rival Lorillard Inc &lt;LO.N&gt; for about $25 billion, merging two of the world's biggest cigarette makers amid a slowdown in sales. Reynolds, whose brands include Camel and Pall Mall, offered $68.88 per Lorillard share, representing a premium of 2.5 percent to Lorillard's Monday closing. Lorillard's shares, which have risen about 37 percent since reports in February of a possible deal, were down 5.5 percent at $63.50 before the bell on Tuesday. Including debt, the deal is valued at $27.4 billion. The deal gives Reynolds, the second-largest cigarette maker in the United States, the leading U.S. menthol cigarette Newport. Analysts say deal will help the No. 2 and No. 3 U.S. players compete with Marlboro maker and No. 1 Altria Group Inc &lt;MO.N&gt; in a market where sales volume is falling about 4 percent a year as more Americans quit smoking. Despite the decline, the United States remains the biggest tobacco market in the world after China and the most profitable. Reynolds also said it would sell its KOOL, Salem and Winston and Lorillard's Maverick and blu eCigs brands and other assets to Britain's Imperial Tobacco Group &lt;IMT.L&gt; for $7.1 billion in cash to address antitrust issues. British American Tobacco &lt;BATS.L&gt;, Reynolds American's largest shareholder, will buy more shares to maintain its 42 percent ownership in Reynolds through a $4.7 billion investment.   (Reporting by Siddharth Cavale in Bangalore; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungBill GrossBill Gross, the self-proclaimed "Justin Bieber of bonds", reportedly threatened to quit his job at Pimco, The Wall Street Street Journal's Gregory Zuckerman reports. Earlier this year, Gross was the subject of an extremely unflattering Wall Street Journal article. The inside account detailed how Gross, who would refer to himself as "Secretariat", had a nasty clash with Mohamed El-Erian in front of the other employees. El-Erian, PIMCO's CEO/co-CIO, abruptly resigned in January. According to the Journal, the eccentric bond guru has received some warnings about some of his recent his media appearances/public comments since El-Erian's departure.  From the WSJ: About three months ago, a group of Pimco senior executives became so concerned about Mr. Gross's dealings with the media that they warned him to stop making public comments they viewed as divisive, according to people familiar with the matter. Mr. Gross, the face of a firm that manages $1.97 trillion and its star investor, has threatened to quit more than once since Mr. El-Erian's March departure, including after that warning, the people say. Then again, Gross doesn't seem to be totally sure if he offered to resign based on these contradictory statements he gave The Journal.  In a July 7 written statement, Mr. Gross said he has offered to resign "several times" over the past seven years—including when Mr. El-Erian submitted his resignation, when he tried to persuade Mr. El-Erian to stay. On Thursday, in a new statement, Mr. Gross said: "I have never considered leaving the firm" other than to allow Mr. El-Erian the sole chief-investment-officer responsibility. Read the whole report at WSJ.com. FREE AppDownload
GoogleZURICH (Reuters) - Swiss drugmaker Novartis has struck an agreement with Google to develop "smart" contact lenses that would help diabetics track their blood glucose levels or restore the eye's ability to focus. The device for diabetics would measure glucose in tear fluid and send the data wirelessly to a mobile device, Novartis said. The technology is potentially life-changing for many diabetics, who prick their fingers as many as 10 times daily to check their body's production of the sugar. Success would allow Novartis to compete in a global blood-sugar tracking market that is expected to be worth over $12 billion by 2017, according to research firm GlobalData. Diabetes afflicts an estimated 382 million people worldwide. The second approach is for presbyopia, in which aging eyes have trouble focusing on close objects. Novartis hopes the lens technology will help restore the eye's ability to focus, almost like the autofocus on a camera. Non-invasive sensors, microchips and other miniaturized electronics would be embedded into the contact lenses. Under the deal with Google, Novartis's Alcon eyecare unit will further develop and commercialize the lens technologies designed by Google[x], the American company's development team. Financial details were not disclosed. The alliance comes as drugmakers explore ways for technology to reshape healthcare, helping patients monitor their own health and lowering the costs of managing chronic diseases. In turn, technology firms such as Apple Inc, Samsung Electronics Co and Google are trying to find health-related applications for wearable devices. Novartis Chief Executive Joe Jimenez said he hoped a product could be on the market in about five years' time. "This really brings high-technology and combines it with biology and that's a very exciting combination for us," Jimenez told Reuters. "I think you're going to see more and more areas of unmet medical need where companies like Novartis are going to take a non-traditional approach to addressing those unmet needs." Although the licensing deal is just for the eye, Jimenez said the drugmaker was also thinking about how technology could be applied in other areas, such as remote patient monitoring in heart failure. (Additional reporting by Katharina Bart and Paul Arnold; editing by Maria Sheahan and Tom Pfeiffer) FREE AppDownload
HPRalph WhitworthHewlett-Packard board chairman Ralph Whitworth is stepping down for health reasons, according to a press release issued by the company. Whitworth was named interim chairman in April 2013, and has been a member of the company's board since 2011.  Whitworth is also the co-founder of activist hedge fund Relational Investors from which he is also taking a leave of absence. Following the news, shares of HP were little changed in pre-market trade.  Here's the full release. PALO ALTO, CA--(Marketwired - Jul 15, 2014) - HP (NYSE: HPQ) today announced that Ralph Whitworth has resigned from HP's board of directors to focus on his health, effective July 16, 2014. Mr. Whitworth is also taking a leave of absence from his investment company, Relational Investors. The HP board of directors will discuss appointing a new chairman at its next board meeting. Whitworth, who was appointed chairman on an interim basis in April 2013, has been a member of the HP board of directors since 2011. He is co-founder and principal of Relational Investors LLC, a registered investment advisor founded in 1996. "Ralph has been a friend and close advisor to me, the HP leadership team and every member of the board for nearly three years," said Meg Whitman, president and chief executive officer, HP. "He has been a wonderful contributor to our efforts to turn HP around. Ralph's passion and incredible mind for business will be deeply missed by all of us. We wish Ralph and his family the very best." "HP has made enormous progress reconstituting its board, implementing world-class capital allocation and corporate governance practices, and putting the company back on strong financial footing," said Whitworth. "HP's shareholders can be very confident that Meg, her team and the current board will stick to the strong practices and discipline we've put in place. While I'm disappointed to step down from HP's board at such an exciting time for the company, it gives me great comfort that HP is in such talented and steady hands." FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogHelping to mitigate corrections have been the steady uptrends in the forward earnings of the S&amp;P 500/400/600 to new record highs. Forward earnings did it again last week. What is different this time is that estimates for 2015 have stopped falling. Over the past three years, annual estimates mostly fell, yet forward earnings moved higher because the coming years’ estimates remained higher than the current years’ estimates. In calculating forward earnings, the former get more weight and the latter get less weight as time passes. Another positive is that S&amp;P 500 forward revenues remains on an upward trend and rose to a new high during the week of July 3. Estimates for 2014 and 2015 have been rising recently and are expected to grow 3.4% and 4.4%, respectively. With the exception of Emerging Markets, the US stands out as having one of the best-looking forward revenues profiles among the various major global MSCI composites. It has the best profile for forward earnings. The US forward profit margin is at a record high, yet still trending higher. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Corrections &amp; Complacency. (1) Panic attacks followed by relief rallies. (2) Shorter and shallower event-driven corrections. (3) From anxiety fatigue to complacency. (4) Ahead of schedule. (5) Another new high for S&amp;P 500 forward revenues and earnings. (6) Analysts predicting solid Q2 earnings growth for most of the sectors. (7) US stands out, which is why US stocks aren’t cheap. (8) Sector valuations around the world. (9) Yellen has been worrying about income inequality since 2006. (10) Help wanted. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Steve Kovach/Business InsiderGoogle’s launch of brand new Android software for wearables, first seen running on a few smartwatches, finally means that wearable technology has a solid lowest common denominator. Until now, no two wearable devices ran the same software, which meant apps and services for one smartwatch wouldn’t run on another. Android Wear has essentially made other smartwatch operating systems, like Sony’s custom software based on Android for its Smartwatch 2, redundant. Others like Samsung’s Tizen, which powers the Korean manufacturer’s Gear smartwatches, no longer seem quite so attractive for developers. Google has gotten a lot right in this, the first release of Android Wear, but not everything about the way it works and what it does is fantastic. After a solid week using it, here are some mixed reactions. Android Wear doesn’t do a lot beyond notifications, including information from Google Now. That makes it only really applicable for the kinds of people, like myself, who are constantly dealing with notifications, who pick up their phone immediately when something goes off. For others that are less glued to their phones, emails, tweets and text messages, the smartwatch experience doesn’t really provide enough to justify buying a £160 accessory. But third-party apps like Evernote, IFTTT and Google Maps are already beginning to exploit Android Wear’s potential. Google’s first stab at Android Wear is user-friendly and relatively polished, making a great platform to build upon. Developers and Google alike will have to be careful not to over-complicate the experience while doing so, however. • Google smartwatches reviewed: LG G Watch and Samsung Gear Live • Pebble review: simple, efficient and a good watch This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Chip Somodevilla/GettyInvestment banking giant Goldman Sachs beat earnings estimates.  For Q2, the bank reported adjusted EPS of $4.10.  The bank was expected to report EPS of $3.09, according to consensus analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue for Q2 was $9.13 billion.  Revenue for the second quarter was expected to come in at $7.98 billion, Bloomberg data shows.  “We are pleased with our results for the quarter in the context of mixed operating conditions during the period. This performance was driven by the diversity, strength and breadth of our global client franchise. Good client activity in Investment Banking and Investment Management as well as a better environment for our Investing &amp; Lending activities helped offset less favorable conditions for Institutional Client Services," Goldman CEO Lloyd Blankfein said in the earnings release. Here's an excerpt from the release:  NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (GS) today reported net revenues of $9.13 billion and net earnings of $2.04 billion for the second quarter ended June 30, 2014. Diluted earnings per common share were $4.10 compared with $3.70 for the second quarter of 2013 and $4.02 for the first quarter of 2014. Annualized return on average common shareholders’ equity (ROE) (1) was 10.9% for both the second quarter of 2014 and the first half of 2014. Highlights _____________ “We are pleased with our results for the quarter in the context of mixed operating conditions during the period,” said Lloyd C. Blankfein, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. “This performance was driven by the diversity, strength and breadth of our global client franchise. Good client activity in Investment Banking and Investment Management as well as a better environment for our Investing &amp; Lending activities helped offset less favorable conditions for Institutional Client Services.” Net Revenues Investment Banking Net revenues in Investment Banking were $1.78 billion for the second quarter of 2014, 15% higher than the second quarter of 2013 and essentially unchanged compared with the first quarter of 2014. Net revenues in Financial Advisory were $506 million, slightly higher compared with the second quarter of 2013. Net revenues in Underwriting were $1.28 billion, 20% higher than the second quarter of 2013, primarily due to significantly higher net revenues in equity underwriting, reflecting an increase in industry-wide activity. Net revenues in debt underwriting were slightly higher compared with the second quarter of 2013. The firm’s investment banking transaction backlog increased compared with both the end of the first quarter of 2014 and the end of 2013. (7) Institutional Client Services Net revenues in Institutional Client Services were $3.83 billion for the second quarter of 2014, 11% lower than the second quarter of 2013 and 14% lower than the first quarter of 2014. Net revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution were $2.22 billion, 10% lower than the second quarter of 2013, due to significantly lower net revenues in currencies and, to a lesser extent, commodities. In addition, net revenues in credit products were slightly lower. These results were partially offset by higher net revenues in mortgages and interest rate products compared with the second quarter of 2013. During the quarter, Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution continued to operate in a challenging environment as market volatility and levels of activity generally remained low. Net revenues in Equities were $1.61 billion, 13% lower than the second quarter of 2013. Excluding net revenues related to the firm’s Americas reinsurance business (8), which was sold in the second quarter of 2013, net revenues in Equities were 9% lower than the second quarter of 2013, reflecting significantly lower net revenues in derivatives and lower commissions and fees. The decrease in commissions and fees primarily reflected generally lower volumes, particularly in the United States and Asia. Securities services net revenues were essentially unchanged compared with the second quarter of 2013. During the quarter, Equities operated in an environment generally characterized by continued low volatility levels. The net loss attributable to the impact of changes in the firm’s own credit spreads on borrowings for which the fair value option was elected was $19 million (substantially all related to equities client execution) for the second quarter of 2014, compared with a net gain of $59 million ($32 million and $27 million related to Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution and equities client execution, respectively) for the second quarter of 2013. Investing &amp; Lending Net revenues in Investing &amp; Lending were $2.07 billion for the second quarter of 2014, 46% higher than the second quarter of 2013 and 36% higher than the first quarter of 2014. Results for the second quarter of 2014 included net gains of $1.25 billion from investments in equities, primarily in private equities, driven by company-specific events and strong corporate performance. In addition, Investing &amp; Lending net revenues included net gains and net interest income of $604 million from debt securities and loans, and other net revenues of $215 million related to the firm’s consolidated investments. Investment Management Net revenues in Investment Management were $1.44 billion for the second quarter of 2014, 8% higher than the second quarter of 2013 and 8% lower than the first quarter of 2014. The increase in net revenues compared with the second quarter of 2013 was due to higher management and other fees, reflecting higher average assets under supervision. During the quarter, total assets under supervision (9) increased $59 billion to $1.14 trillion. Long-term assets under supervision (9) increased $44 billion, including net inflows of $21 billion (10) in fixed income assets. Net market appreciation of $23 billion during the quarter was primarily in equity and fixed income assets. In addition, liquidity products (9) increased $15 billion (10). Expenses Operating expenses were $6.30 billion, 6% higher than the second quarter of 2013 and essentially unchanged compared with the first quarter of 2014. Compensation and Benefits The accrual for compensation and benefits expenses (including salaries, estimated year-end discretionary compensation, amortization of equity awards and other items such as benefits) was $3.92 billion for the second quarter of 2014, 6% higher than the second quarter of 2013, reflecting an increase in net revenues. The ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues for the first half of 2014 was 43.0%, consistent with the first half of 2013. Total staff decreased 1% compared with the end of the first quarter of 2014. Non-Compensation Expenses Non-compensation expenses were $2.38 billion, 5% higher than the second quarter of 2013 and 4% higher than the first quarter of 2014. The increase compared with the second quarter of 2013 reflected higher other expenses, due to higher net provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings, and an increase in depreciation and amortization expenses, reflecting impairment charges in the second quarter of 2014 related to consolidated investments. These increases were partially offset by a decline in insurance reserves, reflecting the sale of the firm’s Americas reinsurance business. Net provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings for the second quarter of 2014 were $284 million compared with $149 million for the second quarter of 2013. Provision for Taxes The effective income tax rate for the first half of 2014 was 30.3%, down from 32.7% for the first quarter of 2014, primarily due to a determination that certain non-U.S. earnings would be permanently reinvested abroad, as well as changes in the earnings mix. Capital As of June 30, 2014, total capital was $248.65 billion, consisting of $81.63 billion in total shareholders’ equity (common shareholders’ equity of $72.43 billion and preferred stock of $9.20 billion) and $167.02 billion in unsecured long-term borrowings. Book value per common share was $158.21 and tangible book value per common share (3) was $148.45, both approximately 2% higher compared with the end of the first quarter of 2014. Book value per common share and tangible book value per common share are based on common shares outstanding, including restricted stock units granted to employees with no future service requirements, of 457.8 million as of June 30, 2014. On April 28, 2014, the firm issued 28,000 shares of perpetual 6.375% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K, for aggregate proceeds of $700 million, and 52,000 shares of perpetual 5.70% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series L, for aggregate proceeds of $1.30 billion. On July 14, 2014, the Board of Directors of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. declared a dividend of $0.55 per common share to be paid on September 29, 2014 to common shareholders of record on August 29, 2014. During the quarter, the firm repurchased 7.8 million shares of its common stock at an average cost per share of $160.89, for a total cost of $1.25 billion. The remaining share authorization under the firm’s existing repurchase program is 39.1 million shares. (11) The firm’s Common Equity Tier 1 ratio (6) was 11.4% (5) as of June 30, 2014, under the Basel III Advanced approach reflecting the applicable transitional provisions. The firm’s Common Equity Tier 1 ratio under this approach was 11.3% as of March 31, 2014. Other Balance Sheet and Liquidity Metrics ______________ The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. is a leading global investment banking, securities and investment management firm that provides a wide range of financial services to a substantial and diversified client base that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments and high-net-worth individuals. Founded in 1869, the firm is headquartered in New York and maintains offices in all major financial centers around the world. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This press release contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but instead represent only the firm’s beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside of the firm’s control. It is possible that the firm’s actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these forward-looking statements. For a discussion of some of the risks and important factors that could affect the firm’s future results and financial condition, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the firm’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013. Certain of the information regarding the firm’s capital ratios, risk-weighted assets, total assets, level 3 assets and global core excess liquidity consist of preliminary estimates. These estimates are forward-looking statements and are subject to change, possibly materially, as the firm completes its financial statements. Statements about the firm’s investment banking transaction backlog also may constitute forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to the risk that the terms of these transactions may be modified or that they may not be completed at all; therefore, the net revenues, if any, that the firm actually earns from these transactions may differ, possibly materially, from those currently expected. Important factors that could result in a modification of the terms of a transaction or a transaction not being completed include, in the case of underwriting transactions, a decline or continued weakness in general economic conditions, outbreak of hostilities, volatility in the securities markets generally or an adverse development with respect to the issuer of the securities and, in the case of financial advisory transactions, a decline in the securities markets, an inability to obtain adequate financing, an adverse development with respect to a party to the transaction or a failure to obtain a required regulatory approval. For a discussion of other important factors that could adversely affect the firm’s investment banking transactions, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the firm’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013. FREE AppDownload
IMDB"The Ring"JPMorgan Chase, the largest U.S. bank by assets, beat second quarter earnings estimates even after a big legal expense. When you delve into the numbers, the results really aren't all that pretty. In the supplements packet, there are two slides that encapsulate the nightmare that Wall Street is living through right now.  On Wall Street, folks have been anticipating weaker trading. Desks at the banks have been quiet due to low volatility and low volume in the market. This slide from the Corporate &amp; Investment bank demonstrates how bad trading was in Q2. Markets revenue for Q2 was down 14% year-over-year. It could have been worse, though. Back in May, the bank warned that its market revenue for the second quarter could be down 20% because of the "challenging environment." JPMorgan  The next slide shows the mortgage banking business in the Consumer and Community banking division. The bank said mortgage production was 74% lower year-over-year. Also, headcount in that division is down about 13,000.  JPMorgan FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Andrew BurtonJPMorgan Chase beat earnings expectations even after a big legal expense.  For Q2, the bank reported EPS of $1.59. The firm had a legal expense of 13 cents per share. Even excluding the legal expense, it still beat earnings expectations.  The largest U.S. bank was expected to report adjusted EPS of $1.31 for the second quarter, according to Bloomberg. Revenue came in at $25.3 billion, which also beat analyst estimates. Revenue for Q2 was expected to come in at $23.89 billion, Bloomberg data shows. As expected, the bank's trading revenue for Q2 was down year-over-year. "Markets &amp; Investor Services revenue was $5.9 billion, down 12% from the prior year. Fixed Income Markets revenue of $3.5 billion was down 15% from the prior year on historically low levels of volatility and lower client activity across products. Equity Markets revenue of $1.2 billion was down 10% compared with the prior year, primarily on lower derivatives revenue. Securities Services revenue was $1.1 billion, up 5% from the prior year primarily driven by higher net interest income on increased deposits. Credit Adjustments &amp; Other revenue was a gain of $125 million driven by gains, net of hedges, related to funding valuation adjustments/DVA, compared with a gain of $274 million in the prior year which was primarily driven by DVA," the earnings statement said. Back in May, the bank warned that it's market revenue for the second quarter could be down 20% because of the "challenging environment."  Meanwhile, the bank's mortgage business completely tanked during the second quarter. "Mortgage Production pretax income was $63 million, a decrease of $519 million from the prior year, reflecting lower revenue, partially offset by lower expense and lower repurchase losses. Mortgage production-related revenue, excluding repurchase losses, was $339 million, a decrease of $947 million from the prior year, primarily on lower volumes. Production expense2 was $413 million, a decrease of $307 million from the prior year, predominantly due to lower headcount-related expense. Repurchase losses for the current quarter reflected a benefit of $137 million, compared with a benefit of $16 million in the prior year," the release states.  The bank noted that mortgage application volumes were down 54% from Q2 in 2013. They were up 15% from the first quarter. Also, JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon disclosed earlier this month that he has curable throat cancer. Shares are up about 1% in the pre-market.  Here's an excerpt from the release:  NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. (JPM): 2 Percentage comparisons noted in the bullet points are calculated versus the prior-year second quarter. 3 Second quarter results also included other, less significant open (positive and negative) non-core items. 4 The repurchase amount is presented on a trade-date basis. 5 Represents the estimated impact of Basel III Advanced fully phased-in capital rules the Firm will be subject to as of January 1, 2019. 6 Liquidity Coverage Ratio ("LCR") is based on the current understanding of the proposed rules. 7 HQLA (“High Quality Liquid Assets”) is the estimated amount of assets that will qualify for inclusion in the Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio. 8 Reflects the U.S. Final Leverage Ratio NPR issued on April 8, 2014. JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. (JPM) today reported net income for the second quarter of 2014 of $6.0 billion, compared with net income of $6.5 billion in the second quarter of 2013. Earnings per share were $1.46, compared with $1.60 in the second quarter of 2013. Revenue1 for the quarter was $25.3 billion, down 2% compared with the prior year. The Firm’s return on tangible common equity1 for the second quarter of 2014 was 14%, compared with 17% in the prior year. Core loans increased by 8% compared with the prior year. The Firm repurchased $1.5 billion of common equity in the second quarter. Jamie Dimon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, commented on the financial results: “Despite continued industry-wide headwinds in Markets and Mortgage, the firm has continued to deliver strong underlying performance. Consumer &amp; Community Banking deposit growth and card sales volume both outpaced the industry2, and we had record loan originations in Business Banking. The Corporate &amp; Investment Bank saw strong performance in fees with #1 position in Global IB fees YTD, global debt and equity, global syndicated loans and global long-term debt. Commercial Banking clients generated record investment banking revenues in the first half of the year. Asset Management had excellent performance across all measures.” Dimon continued: “Toward the end of the second quarter, we saw encouraging signs across our businesses including an uptick in wholesale utilization, strengthening pipelines in our commercial and business banking segments, and some improvements in markets activity. While it is too early to assume that this momentum will continue, we have confidence in the long-term growth of the economy. “Consumers, middle market companies and corporations are in increasingly good financial shape and the labor market is showing steady improvement. JPMorgan Chase provided credit and raised capital of over $1.0 trillion for our clients during the first half of 2014, which included $10 billion for U.S. small businesses.” Dimon concluded: “This quarter marked the 10-year anniversary of JPMorgan Chase and Bank One coming together - the company overcame significant challenges and achieved extraordinary things during this time. Each of our businesses is among the best in the world, with increased market share, strong earnings performance and power, and an unwavering focus on serving our clients, communities and shareholders with distinction and dedication. We continue our progress on adapting to the new global financial architecture and on our control agenda. My pride in the company is greater than ever.” FREE AppDownload
AFPA smartphone messaging app set up in the aftermath of Japan's 2011 quake-tsunami disaster has applied to list on the Tokyo stock exchange, in an offering that could be worth more than $9.8 billion, a report said Tuesday. Fast-growing messaging service Line, has submitted a formal application to Japan's main bourse, Dow Jones Newswires said citing an unnamed source, adding that it could list as early as the autumn. The Tokyo-based firm is also considering a New York filing, the report said. However, the Tokyo exchange and Line declined to comment, with a company spokesman saying "nothing has been decided at the moment". The app was set up in 2011 by the Japanese unit of South Korean Internet service provider Naver Corp. after the March 2011 tragedy damaged telecoms infrastructure nationwide, forcing staff to resort to online resources to communicate. The resource was released to the public in June 2011 and now has more than 400 million registered users, mainly in Japan and Asia, while is growing fast in other parts of the world. It lets users make free calls, send instant messages and post photos or short videos, combining attributes from Facebook, Skype and messaging application WhatsApp. Line is widely seen as a competitor to WhatsApp, which Facebook agreed to buy for $19 billion, and WeChat, which is owned by Chinese giant Tencent Inc. Line has forged heavyweight partnerships with Spanish football giants Barcelona and Real Madrid, brands such as Coca-Cola and tennis star Rafael Nadal. One of Line's main selling points is its "stickers" -- funny, cartoon-like emoticons that users can post to friends. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alessandro BianchiCruise liner Costa Concordia is seen during a refloat operation at Giglio harbour at Giglio Island July 14, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: Here Comes Janet Yellen! Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen heads to Congress to give her Semiannual Monetary Policy Report. She will address the Senate Banking Committee today at 10:00 a.m. ET. "Yellen will have little choice but to acknowledge the improvement in the labor market when she testifies next week," said Credit Suisse economists. "With the unemployment rate plunging and with inflation trending higher, some in Congress will press her to explain why exceptionally accommodative monetary policy is still required to reach the Fed’s objectives." Microsoft's Cutting Jobs. "Microsoft Corp. is planning its biggest round of job cuts in five years, as the software maker looks to slim down and integrate Nokia Oyj's handset unit, people with knowledge of the company's plans said," reported Bloomberg's Dina Bass. German Investor Confidence Continues To Slide. Germany's Zew economic expectations index tumbled to 27.1 in July from 29.8 in June. Economists were forecasting a more modest decline to 28.2. "German investors continue to mark down their expectations for the economy, which is now a worrying trend," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. "The expectations component of this survey has dropped every single month so far this year, as a sign that investors don’t believe that the benign conditions seen in the past year will last." Market Update. U.S. futures are modestly in the red with Dow futures down 9 points and S&amp;P futures down 2.6 points. In Europe stocks are also down with Britain's FTSE 100 down 0.1%, France's CAC 40 down 0.4%, and Germany's DAX down 0.4%. Asia closed higher with Japan's Nikkei up 0.6% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng up 0.5%. Get Ready Big Bank Earnings. JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs Group both beat analysts' expectations for Q2 earnings. Also as expected, the banks' trading and mortgage businesses saw sharp declines. June Retail Sales Check. Retail sales climbed by just 0.2% in June, missing expectations for 0.6% growth. Excluding autos and gas, sales climbed 0.4%, which was a hair below the 0.5% expected. Empire Manufacturing Check. Manufacturing activity in the New York area hit a four year high. The Empire State Manufacturing survey index jumped to 25.6 in July from 19.28 in June. Economists were loking for 17.0. Mom And Pop Are Piling Into Stocks. "Individual investors are plowing money back into the U.S. stock market just as professional strategists say gains for this year are over," reported Bloomberg's Lu Wang. "About $100 billion has been added to equity mutual funds and exchange-traded funds in the past year, 10 times more than the previous 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and the Investment Company Institute. " Bill Gross Threatened To Quit. Amid turmoil in PIMCO's executive suite after then CEO Mohamed El-Erian's sudden departure earlier this year, management put increasing amounts of pressure on the firm's face Bill Gross. "About three months ago, a group of Pimco senior executives became so concerned about Mr. Gross's dealings with the media that they warned him to stop making public comments they viewed as divisive, according to people familiar with the matter," reported the WSJ's Greg Zuckerman and Kirsten Grind. "Mr. Gross, the face of a firm that manages $1.97 trillion and its star investor, has threatened to quit more than once since Mr. El-Erian's March departure, including after that warning, the people say. " Getting To The Bottom Of CYNK. CYNK Technology, a company with no revenue and no assets, captured everyone's imagination when its penny stock exploded by 25,000% in just a month. Business Insider's Julia La Roche and Hunter Walker were able to track down one of the founders. "A pair of brothers have been tied to the mysterious social networking company ... and one of them has a history of involvement in questionable businesses," they reported. Their names: John and Phil Kueber... FREE AppDownload
CNBC Monday, Rick Santelli — who is famous for his rants, especially his Tea Party rant — had another one of his blowups in a debate about inflation. The whole thing is worth watching, and Myles Udland has a great play-by-play of it here. But the highlight wasn't actually Santelli's meltdown. It was a line delivered to him by his sparring partner, Steve Liesman. Here it is: It's impossible for you to have been more wrong, Rick. Your call for inflation, the destruction of the dollar, the failure of the U.S. economy to rebound. Rick, it's impossible for you to have been more wrong. Every single bit of advice you gave would've lost people money, Rick. This really nails it. Since 2009, there's been a chorus of doom-and-gloomers predicting hyperinflation, stock market crashes, dollar crashes, and more. They've been 100% wrong. The debate's over. They lose. Watch the whole thing here.  FREE AppDownload
AFPAlibaba and US-based entertainment company Lionsgate on Tuesday announced plans for a movie and television streaming service in mainland China, as the Chinese Internet giant expands beyond its e-commerce core. Alibaba, whose flagship site Taobao holds more than 90 percent of China's online consumer-to-consumer market, is preparing for a multi-billion-dollar stock offer on the New York Stock Exchange that could rival Facebook's flotation. The Chinese company will offer Lionsgate content, which includes the television series "Mad Men" and the movie franchise "The Hunger Games", through its set-top boxes with an expected launch next month, the companies said in a statement. It did not specify what content would be available. China censors material authorities deem politically sensitive or obscene. The service is subscription-only and higher-level VIP membership will include screening invitations and merchandise offers, the statement said. Movies and TV programmes are widely pirated in China through DVD copies and illegal downloads. Alibaba last year started selling television set-top boxes under the name Wasu Rainbow, offering domestic and foreign television shows on demand and allowing users to shop on its group buying platform. "This cooperation signals our ongoing commitment to advance our vision of making digital media entertainment available to our customers anywhere, anytime," Patrick Liu, president of Alibaba Group’s digital entertainment business unit, said in the statement on the Lionsgate deal. Alibaba and a private equity fund backed by its founder Jack Ma said in late April they will pay $1.22 billion for a stake in China's leading online video platform Youku Tudou. In March, Alibaba also bought a majority stake in Hong Kong-listed ChinaVision Media Group, which is engaged in media-related businesses and movie production. Lionsgate, which is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, currently has more than 30 television shows on more than 20 networks, as well as business interests in motion picture production and distribution.     Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rogan Ward(L-R) Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Chinese President Xi Jinping, South African President Jacob Zuma, Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff and Russian President Vladimir Putin pose for a family photograph during the fifth BRICS Summit in Durban, March 27, 2013.Leaders of the BRICS group of emerging powers meet Tuesday to launch a new development bank and a reserve fund seen as counterweights to Western-led financial institutions. Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff hosts the leaders of Russia, India, China and South Africa in Fortaleza on Tuesday before talks with South American leaders the next day in Brasilia. The summit will mark the first face-to-face meeting between India's new Hindu nationalist Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping. For Russian President Vladimir Putin, who visited Argentina and Cuba before coming to Brazil, the trip gives him a chance to hammer home his calls for a "multipolar" world amid tensions with the West over the Ukraine crisis. "Together we should think about a system of measures that would help prevent the harassment of countries that do not agree with some foreign policy decisions made by the United States and their allies," Putin told Russia's ITAR-TASS news agency. Russia has been excluded from the G8 group of industrialized powers as punishment for its annexation of Crimea and perceived meddling in Ukraine. The United States is threatening to impose new economic sanctions on Russia over accusations that it is backing pro-Moscow separatist rebels in eastern Ukraine.  The summit comes as the economies of some BRICS countries, which together represent 40 percent of the world population and a fifth of the global economy, are cooling down. Russia and Brazil are expected to see growth of just one percent this year. The five emerging nations unveiled in 2013 their plans to create the bank, which aims to rival the Washington-based World Bank while the reserve is seen as a "mini-IMF." The creation of the bank will give a backbone to the BRICS, which is not a formal international organization, said Marcos Troyjo, Brazilian director of BRICLab research center at New York's Columbia University. "They are only taking their first steps towards a platform for building consensus on international agenda items such as rules for international trade, joint action at the UN or the WTO," he told AFP, referring to the World Trade Organization. The bank will have initial capital of $50 billion with each country contributing an equal share, while the reserve will have $100 billion at its disposal. The bank is "key to foster growth for the BRICS countries," Brazilian Industry and Commerce Minister Mauro Borges said. For the fund, China will make the biggest contribution, $41 billion, followed by $18 billion from Brazil, India and Russia and $5 billion from South Africa. Despite their agreement on the need for a bank, the five countries are split on where it should be headquartered. Shanghai is seen as the frontrunner to host the bank but South Africa insists on having it in Johannesburg. New Delhi and Moscow are the other candidates. The five nations are also negotiating who should hold the bank's rotating presidency first and the make-up of the board. The talks in Fortaleza will open a series of marathon summits and bilateral meetings in Brazil. After the BRICS meet with South American presidents in Brasilia on Wednesday, Xi will launch the China-Latin America forum, highlighting Beijing's growing interests in a region historically tied economically to the United States. Xi will then travel to Argentina, Venezuela and Cuba. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA security guard covers his mouth as he yawns while standing guard outside the headquarters of the Bank of China in BeijingSHANGHAI (Reuters) - Major Chinese banks have temporarily suspended a yuan remittance service after a state broadcaster accused the country's fourth biggest lender Bank of China (BOC) of allowing wealthy Chinese to launder money offshore through the scheme, the Wall Street Journal reported on Tuesday. The paper, citing unidentified sources, said Bank of China, Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd (ICBC) and China CITIC Bank Corp had halted the service which had been approved by the central bank about two years ago. A Bank of China source with direct knowledge of the matter said the bank had temporarily halted the service. "The bank understands that there are management and risk control issues with the program, especially in relation to the junior employees involved," said the source, who declined to be named. Public relations officials at Bank of China and ICBC could not be reached for comment while a CITIC Bank official refused to comment on the Wall Street Journal's report. Last week China Central Television (CCTV) aired what it called an undercover investigation program that uncovered a little known service called "You Hui Tong", which allows wealthy Chinese individuals to take part in investment emigration programs in other countries to move cash offshore in amounts that exceed the annual cap of $50,000. The program quoted an unnamed BOC source who said the scheme was kept a secret because BOC knew it was illegal, but BOC denied the allegations. The news prompted the country's central bank to look into the allegations, according to the official Xinhua news agency. (Reporting by Engen Tham and Bi Xiaowen; Editing by Kazunori Takada and Raju Gopalakrishnan) FREE AppDownload
Economic data watchers, rejoice: It's going to be a big day. Three events are coming up. From Calculated Risk: • At 8:30 AM ET, Retail sales for June will be released. The consensus is for retail sales to increase 0.6% in June, and to increase 0.5% ex-autos.• Also at 8:30 AM, the NY Fed Empire Manufacturing Survey for July. The consensus is for a reading of 17.0, down from 19.3 in June (above zero is expansion).• At 10:00 AM, Testimony by Fed Chair Janet Yellen, Semiannual Monetary Policy Report to the Congress, Before the Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee, Washington, D.C. Retail sales will be huge to watch, as that will give us the clearest indication of whether consumers have kept up their summer momentum. Some retailers have indicated that consumers have not, which is worrisome. And of course, traders will obsess over every word from Janet Yellen, to see if she gives any indication of indicating perhaps rate hikes could come sooner than expected. We'll be covering it all LIVE. FREE AppDownload
APThe House of Representatives is set to vote Tuesday on a short-term patch to the federal Highway Trust Fund, an issue that is making for interesting alliances on Wednesday. The White House signaled late Monday night that President Obama supports the short-term patch hatched out of the House Ways and Means Committee, even though he and many congressional Democrats are grumbling about the lack of a longer-term fix. But leading the way in opposition to the plan are conservative groups and lawmakers who want transportation policy to fundamentally change within the next year. Conservative groups like Heritage Action and the Club for Growth are leading the charge to gradually devolve transportation funding to individual states, arguing they would be in better position to determine their own projects without being dependent on Washington. They say they have been warning about the looming crisis — or, as they put it, the need for a "bailout" — since 2012, the last time Congress shored up the Highway Trust Fund. "Giving that money to the states is a really uncontroversial idea," Dan Holler, a spokesman for Heritage Action, told Business Insider in an interview. "Nobody across the country cares if some bureaucrats in Washington and handful of committee members aren’t having a say in how they spend state and local money." For conservatives, highway spending provides another chance to debate federal role in policies they view as better handled by states. In an issue much like their views on education, they say states are uniquely positioned to decide for themselves what projects they want to undertake, providing them a way out of Washington's guidelines and strings attached. And in this case, they also argue that the "offsets" in the bill are gimmicks that won't actually cut spending in the long run. Both Heritage Action and the Club for Growth are "key voting" the House's vote on Tuesday, which means it will be a vote on which they score House members. The conservative Madison Project also opposes the plan because it uses the gimmick known as "pension smoothing" as an offset, Daniel Horowitz, a spokesman for the group, told Business Insider.  Andy Roth, the Club for Growth's vice president of government affairs, said the bill displays a lack of seriousness on the part of lawmakers, since it doesn't contain structural reforms to the fund that would prevent a similar situation in the future. "This bill uses budget gimmicks and fee increases to bail out a wasteful and inefficient program that shouldn't even exist," Roth wrote in a letter to members of Congress on Monday. Roth's letter hints at where the groups want to eventually take the debate. Though conservatives are opposed to a patched-up extension now and say it won't constitute a "crisis," they're gearing up for a much bigger fight ahead of a deadline next spring.  David McNew/Getty ImagesThe House GOP's bill will keep the trust fund solvent through next May. Conservatives have begun to rally around bills from Rep. Tom Graves (R-Georgia) and Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah), which would gradually phase out the federal gas tax and leave it up to states to decide how they want to raise revenue to fund projects. "We're optimistic. There are more people talking about that as a solution," Holler said. "Everybody agrees with the rhetoric. It's hard to argue that states should have less control over their transportation projects. So we feel that we're picking up steam in that direction." The gas tax, currently at 18.4 cents per gallon, has not been raised in more than 20 years. It's a key factor in the looming insolvency of the Highway Trust Fund that some lawmakers have dubbed a "construction shutdown," since Americans have cut back on driving overall and have trended toward more fuel-efficient vehicles. The bills put forward by Graves and Lee would gradually decrease the gas tax to 3.7 cents per gallon over five years, leaving it up to states whether they want to raise their own gas taxes or find revenue through other means. But some opponents of that plan argue some smaller states would be wholly unable to fund all of the burgeoning problems with their highways and infrastructure. Under the federal system, different states get different levels of help. For example, in 2011, New York received less than 15% of its total highway and transit funding from the federal government, according to an analysis from Pew Charitable Trusts. Montana, on the other hand, received almost 60% of its total funding from Washington.  Others make a similar argument, theorizing some states that serve as crucial coastal in-betweens for commerce and homeland security shipments would not be able to keep up with highway and transit projects at a necessary pace. "Proposals by Heritage Action and its acolytes at the Club for Growth to 'devolve' federal highway spending without offering a viable alternative are unserious and irresponsible," Association of Equipment Manufacturers spokesman Michael O'Brien said in a statement on Monday, responding to the two groups' key-vote announcements. The conservative groups, however, say that removing federal funding from states' highway and transportation funding wouldn't constitute a "crisis" or a "highway shutdown." Holler points to recent testimony from the Congressional Budget Office's Joseph Kile. He said that, on average, states receive about one-quarter of their spending on building, operating, and maintaining highways, as well as on mass-transit projects, from the federal government. That's why when Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx warned about a 28% cut in federal money to states beginning next month, Heritage Action and the other groups scoffed. Because that number only represents a cut in federal funding, it constitutes only about a 7% reduction in total assistance, Holler said, urging lawmakers to think twice before voting this time. "Lawmakers don't have to feel as though they have to do something before they go home in August," Holler told Business Insider. "Because whenever they have to 'do something,' they typically make really bad decisions." FREE AppDownload
Thomson Reuters100 Yuan notes are seen in this illustration picture in BeijingBEIJING (Reuters) - Beijing stepped up efforts to re-energise China's economy in June and avert a sharper slowdown, pumping more money into the system and pressing banks to extend more loans, but analysts say more stimulus will be needed to ensure a sustained recovery. Data over the last week offered some signs that the world's second-largest economy steadied in the second quarter as a raft of government stimulus measures kicked in, though exports remained sluggish, putting greater pressure on Beijing to stoke domestic demand. A cooling property market also points to continued risks in the second half and could well determine the scope and extent of further policy easing, after Premier Li Keqiang vowed recently that the economy would grow by at least the targeted 7.5 percent rate this year. Chinese banks, which are used by Beijing as a policy tool, made a much stronger-than expected 1.08 trillion yuan ($173.9 billion) of new yuan loans in June, nearly 20 percent more than market expectations, data on Tuesday showed. Broad M2 money supply jumped 14.7 percent last month from a year earlier - the highest in 10 months, the People's Bank of China said in a statement on its website, also higher than a forecast of 13.5 percent in a Reuters poll of economists. "While a fall in short-term lending rates hinted at a higher supply of funds during the month, the money swirling in the market reflects the urgency of the authorities to ramp up economic activity," said Chester Liaw, an economist at Forecast Pte in Singapore. Outstanding yuan loans grew 14 percent from a year ago, slightly better than expectations, while the total social financing aggregate, a broad measure of liquidity in the economy, swelled to 1.97 trillion yuan in June from 1.4 trillion yuan the month before. "We had previously expected aggregate financing to come in much higher, but still the 1.97 trillion yuan printed as a major upside surprise," Liaw said. The central bank has pledged to keep credit and money supply growth at a reasonable level to meet the needs of the real economy. It aims for a 13 percent annual rise in M2 this year. The strong growth in money supply in June "is an explicit loosening of (monetary) conditions. Some of this is seasonal. At the end of the quarter there was demand for cash. And evidently, the authorities supplied it," said Tim Condon, economist at ING Bank in Singapore. But other economists were more cautious. "We believe that June's rebound in credit growth has more to do with a weak base for comparison due to the cash crunch last year than with the current policy stance," Julian Evans-Pritchard, China economist at Capital Economics, said in a note.   UPBEAT ON EXPORT OUTLOOK After a shaky start to the year, China's economy has recently shown signs of turning the corner thanks to a series of government stimulus measures, including reserve requirement cuts for some banks and more spending on railways and public housing. Government spending surged 26.1 percent in June from a year earlier to 1.65 trillion yuan, further reflecting Beijing's determination to revive growth momentum. However, many economists stress that the rebound looks patchy and believe more policy support may still be needed to counter the broader economic downdraft from the slowing property sector. China's Commerce Ministry said on Tuesday that export growth should show marked improvement in the second-half of the year compared to the first six months, making it likely that China will achieve its 7.5 percent trade growth target for 2014. “Our surveys on exporters showed that export firms are showing confidence on trade growth. Therefore, we expect both export and import growth will improve remarkably in the second half than that in the first half," Shen Danyang, ministry spokesman told reporters at the monthly briefing: "If stripping off last year’s high base effect of abnormal trade growth, I think we are able to achieve the 7.5 percent annual trade growth target in 2014 through efforts." China's trade performance improved in June but still missed market forecasts, while cooler-than-expect inflation readings pointed to lingering sluggishness in the economy. China's foreign direct investment inflows rose at an annual pace of 2.2 percent in the first six months and were up only modestly for June, reflecting investors' cautiousness over the economic outlook. The government is due to release second-quarter GDP growth on Wednesday, along with data on fixed-asset investment for the first half and factory output and retail sales for June. Economists polled by Reuters expected annual GDP growth of 7.4 percent in the second quarter, matching the 18-month low in the first quarter, though Premier Li said last week that growth had improved in April-June.     (Reporting by China economics team; Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Microsoft logo is seen at their offices in Bucharest(Reuters) - Microsoft Corp is planning its biggest round of job cuts in five years as the software maker looks to integrate Nokia Oyj's handset unit, Bloomberg reported, citing people with knowledge of the company's plans. The reductions, expected to be announced as soon as this week, could be in the Nokia unit and the parts of Microsoft that overlap with that business, as well as in marketing and engineering, Bloomberg reported. The restructuring may end up being the biggest in Microsoft history, topping the 5,800 jobs cut in 2009, the report said. Microsoft could not be immediately reached for comment outside regular business hours. (Reporting by Supriya Kurane in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
Christopher FurlongWomen react after the Synod session which approved the consecration of women bishops, in York July 14, 2014.1. The Israeli government accepted a cease-fire proposed by Egypt following a week of rocket attacks in Gaza that has killed close to 200 Palestinians. The truce calls for "deescalation" on both sides starting Tuesday morning, however, Hamas has not yet accepted the proposal.  2. Microsoft is reportedly planning one of its biggest job cuts in five years. The massive cull could come as soon as this week and "will probably be in areas such as Nokia and divisions of Microsoft that overlap with that business, as well as marketing and engineering," Bloomberg said.  3. The Church of England's General Synod voted on Monday to allow women to become bishops for the first time in history. The historic vote was supported by archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby, who said after the decision that he was "grateful to God and to answered prayers," the Guardian reports.  4. The World Trade Organization found that the United States broke the organization's global trade rules by improperly applying tariffs on steel and solar panel imports from China and India. Both countries "disputed the way Washington imposed 'countervailing duties,' which can only be applied when the exporters are 'public bodies,' and how it calculated subsidies on a number of Chinese products," the Financial Times reported.  5. British foreign secretary William Hague is stepping down, a move that comes before a major reshuffling of Parliament. Hague, 53, will serve as House of Commons leader before leaving politics for good next year to focus on his writing career.  6. Bowe Bergdahl, the American solider who spent nearly five years as a Taliban captive in Afghanistan, returned to active duty on Monday. It's not clear yet if Bergdahl, alleged to have deserted his unit in 2009, will face a court marshal.  7. Brazil soccer coach Luiz Felipe Scolari resigned after the World Cup host team lost its two final games. Brazil was crushed by Germany in the semi-finals then lost 3-0 to the Netherlands in the play-off. Scolari described the Germany defeat as the "worst day of his life." 8. Apple may have to delay the launch of its 5.5-inch iPhone 6, or "phablet," due to manufacturing problems. The issue is related to the phone's sensitive touch screen. The smaller iPhone 6 is expected to come out in September.   9. Photos on Tuesday showed North Korean leader Kim Jong Un supervising rocket launches  unusually close to the border with South Korea. North Korea often test fires rockets "into waters off its east and west coasts, but state media rarely shows Kim supervising drills so close to South Korea," Reuters says.  10. A banner featuring a swastika within a Star of David was flown up and down New York beaches over the weekend, angering thousands in Jewish communities along the coast. The banner was sponsored by the Raelian Movement, a fringe religious group, to promote “Swastika Rehabilitation Week.” And finally... Hate parking your car? At Dusseldorf Airport in Germany, a robot called "Ray" will automatically maneuver your car into a spot and fetch it for you when you come back.  FREE AppDownload
