REUTERS/Toru HanaiAsian markets are in the red as the weekend draws to a close. HSBC China PMI, which came in at 48.1 in April, missing expectations for 48.3.  The report showed that Chinese manufacturing continues to contract. Markets are also jittery after violence in Ukraine escalated over the weekend. A street fight in Odessa between pro-Russian and pro-Ukrainian forces saw 42 dead and a 125 injured. U.S. futures are also modestly lower. The S&amp;P 500 and DOW are down 0.1%, meanwhile, Nasdaq is down 0.08%. In the U.S. this week, all eyes will be on Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen as she testifies before the Joint Economic Committee and the Senate Budget Committee on Wednesday and Thursday respectively. FREE AppDownload
ReutersHSBC China manufacturing PMI for April is out at 9:45 p.m. ET. Economists polled by Bloomberg were looking for a reading of 48.3. And the number is down from the flash reading of 48.3, but up from 48.0 in March. A reading below 50 indicates contraction. Production at Chinese manufacturers fell for the third straight month, but as a slower pace. Meanwhile, staffing levels were cut for the sixth straight month and at a faster pace, “amid reports of company down-sizing policies which stemmed from lower production requirements.” “The latest data implied that domestic demand contracted at a slower pace, but remained sluggish,” said Hongbin Qu, HSBC chief economist for China.  “Meanwhile, both the new export orders and employment sub-indices contracted, and were revised down from the earlier flash readings. These indicate that the manufacturing sector, and the broader economy as a whole, continues to lose momentum.” Beijing announced a mini-stimulus to help stabilize growth and this is expected to have improved business sentiment. China’s official manufacturing PMI number climbed to 50.4.  The HSBC survey has a smaller sample than the official number and is more tilted towards small and medium enterprises. Here's a look at the trajectory of Chinese PMI: Markit Economics FREE AppDownload
After the annual Berkshire Hathaway shareholder meeting this weekend, Warren Buffett spent several hours at Borsheims — the jewelry mega-store he owns in Omaha — selling items to customers in a packed house. He also helped one shareholder pull off a major surprise. According to Borsheims' blog: Eric LaFante told his girlfriend he was buying a necklace from Mr. Buffett, but instead bought an engagement ring, dropped to his knee, and proposed to his girlfriend. Mr. Buffett handed the two glasses of champagne before toasting them with Borsheims President &amp; CEO Karen Goracke. Check out the video:  Borsheims also sold dozens of diamonds laser-inscribed with Buffett's signature.  FREE AppDownload
Good morning! Here’s what you need to know: Packer ‘fistfight’. Just in: The Sydney Morning Herald reports there’s a bidding war this morning for photos of a fistfight between billionaire James Packer and Channel Nine CEO David Gyngell. The fight, which apparently involved swinging fists and then wrestling on the ground, happened yesterday afternoon in Bondi and broke out when Packer arrived home to find Gyngell waiting outside for him. Jobs bounce. The US economy added a huge 288,000 jobs last month, way ahead of expectations but with the market impact tempered by the big fall in the participation rate. This one chart shows that the US economy has now almost recovered the job losses from the GFC-triggered recession. But the chart also shows just how deep this downturn has been. CalculatedRisk Data deluge. It’s a busy week domestically in Australia. The Reserve Bank’s monthly interest rate decision is tomorrow and the wording of the statement will be the focus of the market, particularly around the high value of the Australian dollar. On Wednesday there’s retail sales and then unemployment on Thursday, with economists expecting 9,500 jobs added following last month’s huge surprise of +18,000. On Friday we get the RBA’s statement of monetary policy with the central bank’s updated forecasts for growth and inflation. ASX futures point to a rise of seven points on the Open. Fundraising questions. Tony Abbott has been defending fundraising methods for the Liberal Party this morning following a Fairfax media report on the North Sydney Forum, which allowed donor who paid up to $22,000 in membership fees which would help grant private meetings with Treasurer Joe Hockey. This is entirely normal fundraising but the whole system is under extra scrutiny given the corruption investigations into separate, very crooked fundraising efforts by state MPs which have thrown the state government into crisis. More details here. Budget scramble. Questions about fundraising will be particularly unwelcome for the federal government. The federal Budget is just eight days away but reports today suggest the government is scrambling to adjust its plans – The Australian says the deficit levy, initially reported to kick in for workers on $80,000 a year at 1c in the dollar, will now only affect those on $180,000 or above, with the rate at 2c in the dollar. Westpac results. Australia’s second-largest bank just announced its half-year results, beating expectations with an 8% increase in cash earnings to $3.77 billion, with a dividend of 90c a share, up from 86c last year. Housing credit growth is at its fastest rate in five years; and there was double-digit growth in all of its divisions, except institutional, which fell. How not to tweet. The social media implosion of the weekend was Rakesh “Rocky” Agrawal, who was appointed PayPal’s director of strategy two months ago but is no longer with the following a late-night, typo-ridden stream of tweets insulting managers at his new company.Some of the highlights included: “Duck you Smedley you useless middle. manager,” and “People who should be fire from paypal Don Christmas a pool a kick.” PayPal confirmed his departure. Ukraine tensions flare. Kiev is losing control of key parts of the country. Pro-Russian separatists, apparently with the co-operation of police, released almost 70 sympathisers who were being held in Odessa overnight, following the deaths of 40 people in fighting over previous days. Prime Minister Arseny Yatseniuk has described it as a “real war”; it’s also been reported that the FBI and the CIA are now advising Kiev. Changing teen habits. The latest update in a regular survey on the sexual health of Australian teenagers figures has some startling findings about the social changes for the upcoming changes. More than a quarter admit sending a sexually explicit photo of themselves, while with sexually active teenagers, more than 80% admit receiving pictures. Researchers says it is “a strength of young people” that those who are sexually active feel positive about it, while those who aren’t active say they are confident it’s what they want. Winners. The Brisbane Roar won their third A-League title in four years with a 2-1 win in extra time over Western Sydney Wanderers. The NSW Waratahs kept their Super Rugby hopes alive with a thrilling win over the Hurricanes in Sydney. Have a great day. I’m on Twitter: @colgo. Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWang Jing, HKND Group chairman, listens to a question at a news conference in Beijing Wang Jing, the enigmatic businessman behind Nicaragua's $50 billion Interoceanic Grand Canal, shrugs off scepticism about how a little-known entrepreneur can be driving a huge transcontinental project, insisting he's not an agent of the Beijing government. "I know you don't believe me," said Wang, who reckons that he's forked-out about $100 million in canal preparation work, and is burning as much as $10 million a month on the project. "You believe there are people from the Chinese government in the background providing support. Why, in the end, is only Wang Jing out front?" High-ranking Chinese officials including President Xi Jinping, Premier Li Keqiang and former leaders Jiang Zemin and Wen Jiabao have all visited the state-connected wireless communication technologies company Wang took control of four years ago. Wang, whose entrepreneurism went mostly unnoticed in China and elsewhere before last year's Nicaragua announcement and a subsequent $3 billion Black Sea port development plan, has not helped matters by refusing to talk in detail about himself or broad swathes of his career. During two interviews at the headquarters of Beijing Xinwei Telecom Technology Inc and in several follow-up emails, the 41-year-old Wang discussed Nicaragua, Beijing Xinwei's recent deal to undertake the biggest reverse takeover in Chinese stock market history and his background, providing fresh details to a life that remains mysterious. "I was born in December 1972 in Beijing," said Wang. "All these years I've lived a very ordinary life." Wang grabbed global headlines last June when he sealed a controversial no-bid 50-year renewable concession from Nicaragua's Sandinista government to develop the $50 billion canal to rival Panama's, and related facilities. Nicaragua preparation is on schedule, Wang said. In January, he and President Daniel Ortega issued a joint statement to address what Wang described as "misleading reports" that the start of construction would be delayed. The proposed scope is enormous, comprising construction of a waterway that may extend 130 miles, depending on the route selected, along with two ports, a railway, oil pipeline, and an international airport. The canal would be longer, deeper and wider than the Panama Canal, about 500 miles to the southeast. The scale of the project has led some to suggest it could only be viable with the backing of the Chinese government, which might see it as a geopolitical play to balance U.S. influence in Central America. "I can't imagine (Wang) would have gone forward without at least coordinating with the Chinese government," said R Evan Ellis, assistant professor for Hemispheric Defense Studies at National Defense University in Washington. "Big Chinese companies just don't parachute down into Latin America." The project, Ellis estimates, may provide China with commercial leverage over key Latin American governments and local companies, which may prove crucial to guarantee trade routes and access to raw materials. "How the project ends will likely depend on the government of the People's Republic of China," he said. For Wang, who can make a small fortune from licensing arrangements alone, the project represents a perilous highwire act. The ocean-connecting waterway has been criticized as the proverbial white elephant, while Wang has been ridiculed in the global press for lacking experience developing or financing big infrastructure. Wang only established Hong Kong Nicaragua Canal Development Investment Co (HKND) in August 2012 and opened offices in Hong Kong's premier International Financial Center weeks ahead of the June 2013 announcement. Nicaraguan opposition politicians also question Wang's commitment to addressing social and environmental issues, particularly how the proposed project may affect Lake Nicaragua, an important freshwater source in the region. Wang has brought in international specialists to help quell concerns. McKinsey &amp; Co was hired to conduct an economic feasibility study, while Environmental Resources Management Ltd is conducting an environmental and social impact study for the various routes under consideration. SBE, the Belgium-based civil engineering firm specializing in canal hydraulics, and MEC Mining, the Australia-based engineering consultancy also have been hired. Washington consultancy McLarty Associates and law firm Kirkland &amp; Ellis also were contracted. As many as 400 engineers and technicians of different nationalities are currently working on a canal feasibility study, Nicaragua's Canal Authority head Manuel Coronel Kautz told Reuters. There are between 600 and 700 people working on the project, Wang said. McKinsey &amp; Co infrastructure partner Stefan Matzinger declined to answer questions. ERM regional chief David McArthur, McLarty Associate's managing partner Stephen Donehoo and Kirkland &amp; Ellis partner Chuan Li did not respond to emails or telephone calls. Financing is a thornier issue. Wang, who may be prepared to spend as much as $300 million of his own cash, said that he will use a combination of cross-shareholding, bank lending and debt issuance to raise the estimated $50 billion needed to finance the project. Five international groups had already agreed to invest in the project, he added. "We have not only signed memorandum-of-understanding, we are working on final preparations for executable, irrevocable contracts," he said. On April 23, Xugong Group Construction Machinery Co., one of China's biggest construction equipment manufacturers, announced it had reached a framework agreement to take a 1.5 to 3 percent stake in Wang's development company. No dollar amount was attached to the investment, which also would make Xugong the sole supplier of engineering equipment to the canal project. More announcements are expected in the coming weeks, Wang said. Other companies that may participate in an international consortium include state conglomerate China Railway Construction Corp., China's biggest overseas engineering contractor, which is one of Wang's strategic partners that has been brought in to help with feasibility studies. Wang said that he has spoken with Chinese state-owned banks but would not say whether any would provide financing. "I want to point out that it isn't going to take $50 billion in cash to do this," Wang said. Wang's other big infrastructure project, a $3 billion plan to build a deepwater port on the Black Sea about 60 km (35 miles) north of Sevastopol, is facing greater uncertainty. In December, Wang announced the agreement between HKND and an unknown Ukrainian firm during a visit to Beijing by Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovich, who was ousted two months later. A photograph captures Wang at the time talking about the port project with Yanukovich and China's Vice Premier Ma Kai. The port site is located in the middle of the Crimean peninsula that has been annexed by Russia. By February, 20 HKND workers had completed their site inspection work and were forced to return to China. "We're still confident, but given the current complexity of the Ukraine situation, in terms of our procedures, our schedule and our rhythm, we will need to replan," Wang said. Wang looks flush with cash — at least on paper. His main asset is a 36.97 percent stake in Beijing Xinwei, the government-backed developer of China's wireless communications standard that now specializes in mobile network development and products. Beijing Xinwei in March estimated its assets at 26.89 billion yuan. Separately, Wang controls Hong Kong Nicaragua Development Co, a Hong Kong registered firm, through mainland-registered Beijing Interoceanic Canal Investment Management Co, according to filings with the Shanghai Stock Exchange and Hong Kong Companies Registry. Wang also reports full ownership of several offshore subsidiaries, including seven Netherlands firms related to the Nicaragua project; a British Virgin Islands-registered aircraft investment company, and media and sports entities, all of which were registered within the last year. He owns Southeast Asia (Cambodia) Agriculture Development Group Inc, which was registered in Cambodia in September 2009, according to Shanghai Stock Exchange filings. Less is known about Wang's path to success. The youthful chief executive refused to discuss his family background, saying only that his father was an ordinary office worker and died in 2010 following an 11-year illness; his mother, who is about 70 years old, is retired; and that he has a daughter. "It's that simple," said Wang. "I'm very ordinary." Wang says he studied at Jiangxi University of Traditional Chinese Medicine but left before graduation, returning years later to organize Beijing Changping Traditional Health and Culture School. In the late 1990s, Wang said he traveled to Hong Kong to learn about international finance and investment. He returned to Beijing in 1998 and founded Dingfu Investment Consulting Co. In Hong Kong, Wang also established Hong Kong Divine (Dingfu) Investment Group Ltd in 2001. He later mined gold and precious stones in Cambodia - a process he described as slow and exacerbated by the legacy of past wars - and opened Yingxi Construction and Engineering Co, a small contractor that participated in projects in Beijing, Tianjin and Guangdong. Available information about these firms is scarce. Wang declined to elaborate on the source of his wealth. "China has an expression 'the finest fragments of fox fur, sewn together, will make a robe', the meaning of which is a fortune is accumulated over time," he said. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersElectronic cigarette vaporizers Cera and Luna by Thermo-Essence Technologies are pictured in San CarlosWhen Noah Minskoff's mother died of lung cancer in 2007, e-cigarettes were just entering the U.S. market. Minskoff, who had just started medical school in Utah, wondered whether the devices might have saved his mother's life by helping her quit smoking. Later, he sent some samples to his boyhood friend Nathan Terry, a mechanical engineer, and asked for his opinion. Terry, who was working in Germany for the French industrial firm Areva, took apart the products to see how they were made. What he found disturbed him: at the heart of the devices were heater wires of unknown quality wrapped around bundles of glass fibers and surrounded by steel wool, silicon, plastic, tape and adhesives. Wires between the heater, circuit board and batteries were connected with lead solder and also housed in tape and plastic. Everything was close to the heat source, meaning consumers were at risk of inhaling fiber and metal particles as well as toxic fumes from hot plastic and lead. "There were red flags everywhere," Terry said. Still, he liked the concept and decided to design a version of his own, avoiding the use of fiberglass, plastic and solder and sourcing his materials entirely in the United States. In 2009 he reunited with Minskoff in California and formed a company, Thermo-Essence Technologies, to sell the product. At $300 a piece, the e-cigarette serves a niche market, albeit one with a loyal following among medical marijuana patients and smokers looking for a high-end e-cigarette. As many as 30,000 have been sold. But what began as a quest to develop a better e-smoke has broadened into an ambitious effort to design a new medical device: an inhaler that delivers measured doses of nicotine to help people quit smoking. The technology could also eventually be used as an abuse-resistant delivery device for other drugs, including opioid painkillers. If successful, the inhaler could become the first new smoking-cessation product to emerge from the e-cigarette field and would compete with products such as GlaxoSmithKline Plc's nicotine gum and Pfizer Inc's antismoking drug, Chantix. To develop the inhaler, Terry formed a second company, Minusa LLC, which is based in Newtown, Connecticut. Minskoff left Thermo-Essence for family reasons and is not involved in Minusa. Terry himself is leaving Thermo-Essence, which is currently being sold, to concentrate on Minusa. The new company obtained initial funding from Michael Breede, a commercial real-estate-turned-biotech investor whose father suffered from drug and alcohol addiction and who is eager to see an abuse-resistant painkiller device. "This is in my wheelhouse," he said. "I think we can put a serious dent in this problem." When Terry developed his e-cigarette he assumed the U.S. Food and Drug Administration would begin regulating the industry, as it has recently done, proposing a ban on sales to people under the age of 18 and requiring companies to register. Later it could impose product standard and quality controls. Terry wanted to create a product that would pass any FDA inspection. He used a pure metal wire wrapped around a rod made from magnesia-stabilized zirconia, a highly durable ceramic material. Instead of meshes, tape and plastic he used novel porous ceramics and surgical-grade alloys, and instead of soldering parts together he connected them mechanically, fitting components together like Legos to complete the circuits. He built on that design to create his drug-delivery device, known as Envi, a single-user, tamper-resistant, metered-dose inhaler. Envi is about the size of a short cigar and comes with a spare in a case the size of a deck of playing cards. The nicotine or other drug will come in a sealed cartridge that the patient will insert into the inhaler. To activate the device, the user will have to enter a code. The inhaler will be programed to deliver a certain amount of drug and then turn off. When the device is returned to the case, which is required after each dose to activate it for the next dose, data on the patient's usage will be downloaded and available to be viewed electronically by the prescribing physician. "It will only let you take your prescription," Terry said. "It will log your usage and transmit it in real time, and make it easier for the doctor to monitor and interact with the patient." Terry, 37, who grew up on an organic farm in Ohio to "hippy commune" parents and studied mechanical engineering at the University of Idaho, faces multiple challenges. Inhalers are typically more expensive to develop than pills, and ensuring patients get the right dose is more complicated. "I can see a lot of barriers, but the idea is certainly interesting," said Dr. Ben Forbes, a Reader in Pharmaceutics, broadly the equivalent of a U.S. professor, at King's College London who specializes in inhaled medications. There needs to be a good reason to target a drug to the lungs, Forbes said. Drugs that are inhaled may work faster than pills, so a device that offered quick pain relief in an abuse-resistant form would be "brilliant" if it could be produced economically, he added. "Changes in inhaler technology have been very incremental over the years, so maybe something like this would have a place." In the meantime, big tobacco companies are developing alternative nicotine products they hope one day will carry a "modified risk" of harm. Some are dispensed through an inhaler. Unlike Terry's smoking-cessation device, which he plans to file with the FDA's drug division, these products would be marketed as less risky alternatives to smoking and be processed through the FDA's tobacco division. However smokers end up using the new products will be the subject of intense research by the FDA. Terry believes he is creating a product that will survive any market configuration. Minusa has a long way to go, and human trials may be two years off. Eventually he hopes to partner with a big drug company. "I think we can change how drugs are delivered." (Reporting by Toni Clarke in Washington; Editing by Michele Gershberg and Prudence Crowther) FREE AppDownload
Phalinn Ooi/flickr Spending on healthcare grew an astounding 9.9% in the Bureau of Economic Analysis' advance estimate of first-quarter GDP.  It's the biggest percent change in healthcare spending since 1980, when healthcare spending jumped 10% in the third quarter. Analysts said it's primarily due to a consumption boost from the implementation of the Affordable Care Act. Adjusted for inflation, America is spending more on healthcare than ever before. Personal consumption grew by 3.0%, about half of which was due to the growth in healthcare spending, said Ian Shepherdson, chief economist for Pantheon Macroeconomics.  "If health-care spending had been unchanged, the headline GDP growth number would have been -1.0%," Shepherdson said. A BEA representative said the uptick "reflects additional spending associated with the implementation of the Affordable Care Act."  The first-quarter advance estimate reflects spending from January through March, the first three months when millions of people who gained insurance by signing up on exchanges established by the law or by qualifying for Medicaid coverage under the program's expansion.  Jared Bernstein, the former chief economist to U.S. Vice President Joe Biden and now a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, speculated that the growth was more likely associated with the Medicaid expansion at this point.  Sign-ups through the exchanges exploded in March, the last month of the first open enrollment period. Of the more than 8 million people who eventually enrolled in insurance plans, nearly half signed up in March or in a special two-week extended period in April. This means the uptick in healthcare spending could be even bigger next quarter. The detailed consumption data in the advance GDP report displays that spending on doctors and hospital services began to rise rapidly last fall, when the law known as Obamacare was implemented. "Both are now running at more than twice their pre-Obamacare trend, indicating that pent-up/hidden demand for healthcare was huge," Shepherdson said.  "Next question: How long will it last?" Here's a chart from Pantheon that shows the growth over the past year in spending on doctor and hospital services, the two factors that dominate the healthcare portion of GDP: Ian Shepherdson/Pantheon Macroeconomics Here's a chart from Business Insider's Andy Kierz that shows the annualized quarterly change since 1980: Andy Kiersz/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
In the aftermath of several recent events such as i) the issuance of new mega batch of $12 billion in bonds by a suddenly domestic-cash strapped Apple, ii) the repatriation of $9 billion in offshore profits (and payment of $3 billion in taxes) by eBay, iii) the flurry of pharma M&amp;A deals and reverse mergers in which US companies are redomiciled offshore (in low corporate tax hosts like Ireland) to avoid paying US taxes, and iv) the outright use of offshore funds to buy offshore companies such as the GE-Alstom deal which bypasses the US treasury entirely, two questions emerge: who has the most offshore cash, and who is most likely to be the next US corporation to engage in one or all of the above listed transactions which merely seek to optimize a company's offshore cash holdings. The answer is shown on the chart below: this is the list of the top 15 US companies that have the bulk of accumulated offshore profits, amounting to roughly $1 trillion in cash, which is never subject to US taxation, and which financial engineers try to generate the highest shareholder returns on. Zero Hedge FREE AppDownload
The last decade has been tough for those in the print business. Thanks to the inexorable shift of eyeballs to digital, newspaper advertising has collapsed, and many newsroom budgets have been slashed. Magazines have fared better, but many of them are also under pressure, and their path to a happy and lucrative digital future still seems unclear. And there's more bad news on the way. The shift to digital that has demolished some print publications is very much generational. And, from a generational perspective, this shift is only just beginning. Media consumers in their 40s, 50s, 60s, and 70s grew up reading newspapers and magazines. Old habits die hard. Many of these consumers will never be as comfortable with digital as they are with paper, and they will keep reading newspapers and magazines until the day they die. But media consumers in the 0s, 10s, 20s, and 30s have no such print habits or allegiances. To them, the idea of printing information on a dead tree and then trucking it to houses and newsstands seems ludicrous, old-fashioned, inconvenient, and wasteful. To these folks, paper-based publications are a pain to carry and search, easy to misplace, and hard to share, and the information in them is outdated the moment it appears. For those who weren't raised on paper, digital is superior in almost every way. This "digital generation," moreover, isn't just kids anymore. Slowly but surely, digital consumers are taking over the coveted media demographics. And in another 10 to 20 years, the only media consumers who still prefer print will be retired folks who have long since passed the torch of influence and spending-power to the digital generation. The results of a recent survey of UK media consumers make this clear. Researchers asked consumers which media they would miss the most. They then segmented the results by age. Even among the oldest consumers — 75 years old and up — digital has made inroads, but it's still perceived as less valuable than print. TV, meanwhile (the purple band), is the big winner in this age group. Among younger consumers, however, digital has long since surpassed print and television in importance. For all those aged 16-44, digital is by far the most dominant medium: TV is still strong, but it's smaller than digital, and a (small) preference for print is visible only in the 35-44 group. Among the 16-34 age group, meanwhile, the next generation of consumers, print [yellow] does not even register on the scale. Ofcom, Benedict Evans In 10-20 years, these 16-34 year old consumers will make up the sweet spot of the consumer market. If this group were ever going to develop a love of print, we would likely have seen it by now. More likely, this generation of consumers will never care about newspapers and magazines the way they care about smartphones and computers. As the generation of consumers who do care about print, meanwhile — the increasingly old people (like me) who grew up on print — continues to age, the pressure on traditional print publications will continue to increase. This chart also shows that those in the TV business should not breathe easy, as the generational shift is happening here, too. Note the difference in TV importance between the 16-24 age group — tomorrow's mainstream consumers — and the retired age groups (yesterday's consumers). Time and tide wait for no man. And the media tide is going digital... SEE ALSO: The Future Of Digital, 2013 FREE AppDownload
Here are two awesome maps from a recent Standard Chartered report on the state of global trade. The top map shows the big exports from every country. The bottom is the country's imports. Each region is depicted by a few categories, and the number next to each category represents how big that category is for each country. Standard Chartered Standard Chartered FREE AppDownload
It doesn't get any clearer than this. No bonds for Buffett. Warren Buffett told @ReutersInsider late Saturday: “I don’t think there is a good long-term fixed income investment” FREE AppDownload
When you live in the most powerful country in the world, the stakes for not knowing every bit about it become low. The reason is simple. If you're a country like France or Italy desperately trying to attract business and investment, you have to be able to know what your country is best at to make your pitch at a moment's notice. The U.S. faces no such pressure. But on the off chance you've taken this privilege and run with it, we've put together  nine basic facts about the American economy that you may not know, but really probably should. The second largest is Mexico. China is third. Census Maybe you did know that. But Canada is second. Census We're just really lucky to have them (and of course vice-versa). Census Again, they are indispensable. We only get about a third from OPEC members. EIA  We spent close to $300 billion on barrels of crude. The runner-up includes household gadgets and other industrial machinery. Returned and reimported items (No. 7) are goods that might be defective, or ones on which the importer defaulted or cancelled. America's refining sector is still going strong.   Census The above chart doesn't mean that much, since we actually have a net deficit in most of those categories. Here's where we really excel — where the world relies on us more than we rely on it. All the definitions are here » BEA Here's our balance of services. We are tops in "other private services" which is practically anything you can think of: finance, insurance, telecom, education, etc. We have a billion-dollar surplus in services against the rest of the world.BEA The U.S. Trade Office calls it licensing and royalties. trade.gov   FREE AppDownload
Flickr/LockYou can stop worrying folks, it looks like economy is doing just fine for people who summer in the Hampton's. First, the NY Post reports on a record real estate deal: An 18-acre estate in East Hampton has been sold for $145 million, sources say, setting a new record for the highest priced residential sale in the nation. But the buyer remains a secret. “Everybody out here is totally mystified,” one local told me. The beachfront property on Further Lane — with formal gardens and a pond — was the dream house of Christopher H. Browne, managing director of the Tweedy, Browne Company investment firm, and his boyfriend, architect Andrew Gordon. Brown died of a heart attack at age 62 in a Florida bar in December 2009, leaving almost his entire estate to Gordon, his partner of 10 years. Meanwhile, on the anecdotal side, the must-follow Joe Schwenk, a handyman who goes by @hamptonsborn tweets: My Pre-season Hamptons Small Biz Economic Survey:Demand sets stage for biz to exceed '07 as best summer yet (Builders,landscapers,staff,etc) Hamptons Request: Build 125/sq.ft Frank Gehry inspired kid's playhouse by Memorial Day. Paying subs 2X to walk off another job. Est.: $125K FREE AppDownload
FREDThe Labor Force Participation Rate is at levels not seen since the 1970s. On Friday, the unemployment rate dived from 6.7% to 6.3%. But the good news was tempered by the massive 800K drop in the size of the Labor Force, as the US Labor Force Participation Rate continues to drop. The extent to which the declining Labor Force Participation Rate is structural (a result of demographics and a changing society) or cyclical (a result of a weak economy and people just "dropping out") is something that's been debated furiously for years now. And as long as we keep getting reports like Friday's, we'll keep having this debate. There's almost certainly an element of both, so the question is: what's the mix of the two? Goldman's Jan Hatzius argues that a fair amount is cyclical (the result of a weak economy). Via Calculated Risk, he writes that the decline is unlikely to continue. One reason is that the aggressiveness of the decline is a function of people retiring early, which means that there will be fewer than expected retirements in the future. Other cyclical patterns (such as people going on disability or people going into school to avoid working are also abating). Since the start of the Great Recession in late 2007, the labor force participation rate has fallen by more than three percentage points, including a sharp drop in April back to the late-2013 lows. The extent of the decline has surprised many economists, ourselves included. What accounts for it, and will it continue?  ... The second question is more difficult, but we believe the answer is no. The most important reason is that the big increase in retirements in the last three years looks far less “structural” to us than generally believed. Many people seem to have pulled forward their retirement because of the weak job market. This leaves correspondingly fewer retirements for future years, and it means that the impact of retirements on participation is likely to become much less negative.The other drags on participation are also likely to abate or reverse. Inflows into disability insurance are now slowing sharply, consistent with past cyclical patterns. The school enrollment surge has started to reverse as young workers are finding better job opportunities. And stronger labor demand is likely to pull many discouraged workers back into the job market. Jan Hatzius' call that the decline in Labor Force Participation Rate will not continue (and will reverse) is consistent with a broader position of his which is that there's not going to be much pressure on the Fed to tighten, as slack remains in the job market, keeping wage pressure down. For investors, who would like to see the easy money last as long as possible, this could mean the "goldilocks" period has a long way to go. FREE AppDownload
New York City bagels are so renowned that people on the West Coast are willing to stand in line for two hours in the rain to get a taste of day-old versions of authentic city bagels. We visited top New York City bagel shop Ess-a-Bagel to see how these doughy breakfast staples are made. Produced by Will Wei. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Getty ImagesDespite all the information out there about effective networking, business owners continue to commit blunders in their efforts to get face-to-face with potential clients. Entrepreneurs can be guilty of thinking of themselves first and the people they can potentially serve second. As the saying goes, “It’s not who you know but who wants to know you” that really counts. 1. Not making eye contact. The first common networking sin is constantly looking over the other person’s shoulder when you are having a conversation. This silently communicates to the person you are talking to that they are unimportant. Instead, focus intently. When you feel it’s time to move around the room and mingle with others, simply excuse yourself. 2. Forgetting the name of the person you have just met. This sets you up for embarrassment when someone else you know comes over and joins you, expecting to be introduced to the person with whom you are speaking. Make it a point to remember the names of people that you meet. If you miss or forget them, excuse yourself and ask them to repeat it. Motivational speaker and author Dale Carnegie was right when he said, “The sweetest, most important sound in any language is to that person the sound of his or her own name.” When you remember and use the name of the person you have met in your conversation with them, you will go a long way in building an effective relationship. 3. Showing up late or leaving early. This third and final deadly sin of networking gives the impression of someone who does not know how to plan their time. People who do this always seem to be in a hurry and come across as pushy and only interested in talking about themselves -- shoving one of their business cards into your hand before rushing off to meet somebody else. My recommendation here is to schedule accordingly and spend quality time at the networking event in which you are investing your reputation and time. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Afolabi SotundeA damaged car is seen at the scene of a car bomb blast in Nyanya, Abuja, May 2, 2014. As business leaders arrive in Abuja, Nigeria for a meeting of the World Economic Forum this week, they will be walking into a civil society under siege from a terror group bent on destroying Western society and a corrupt and unsecure oil sector. More than 200 girls remain missing in the country's northeast, kidnapped and by some accounts "enslaved" by an Islamist terror group called Boko Haram, which literally translates as "Western education is blasphemy." Over the weekend, the U.S. pledged unspecified aid in response to the incident.  The insidiousness of Boko Haram, which has claimed responsibility for a string of attacks in Nigeria's capital, Abuja, is difficult to understate. According to Reuters' Tim Cocks and Lanre Ola, they  "want to install a medieval Islamic kingdom in Nigeria." They've already killed thousands over the course of a five-year insurgency.  Nigerians have lost faith that their government is capable of adequately meeting the challenge. Dozens of protesters marched on Nigeria's parliament for failing to do more. "The abduction has also become a symbol of the military's impotence in protecting civilians against Islamist insurgents whose attacks appear to be getting less discriminating," Cocks and Ola write.  "If 230 girls can go missing for this long and nobody knows how to find them, then something's very wrong with our country," Tokumbo Adebanjo, 45, a travel agent and mother, told them. "I feel the pain of those other mothers. Obviously the government are not doing their job." Meanwhile, the FT's Javier Blas reports the country's fiscal stability is now threatened by a triple whammy of corruption, theft, and falling prices in its oil sector, on which it largely depends for growth. Earlier this year, Lamido Sanusi, Nigeria's highly respected central bank governor claimed he'd found a $20 billion hole in the country's oil account. For announcing this discovery, he was suspended and had his travel rights revoked. A promised investigation into the missing revenues has yet to begin. Blas says falling prices and a massive theft problem have led to a full-on crisis that threatens the country's fiscal stability. "The government based its budget on oil production of 2.39m b/d," he writes. "According to estimates by the IEA, the country has not produced 2.3m-2.4m b/d for any sustained period since 2005-06." Last year, a report from Chatham House said Nigerian crude was being stolen "on an industrial scale," with up to $8 billion in proceeds getting “laundered through world financial centres”. Major western oil companies have begun shutting down operations. “The impact of the activities of crude oil thieves and illegal refineries on the environment in the Niger Delta and the Nigerian economy is now a crisis situation, " Mutiu Sunmonu, the head of Shell in Nigeria, said last year. "We find it difficult to safely operate our pipelines without having to shut them frequently to prevent leaks from illegal connections impacting the environment." Nigeria is the third-largest crude import source for the U.S. eastern seaboard. Some executives have already begun pulling out of the conference. Fernando de Sousa, General Manager of Microsoft Africa Initiatives, canceled his trip "for security reasons following the bombings in Abuja", a PR company representing the firm told Reuters. The State Department has warned unspecified terror groups were planning attacks against two Lagos Sheraton hotels this week. FREE AppDownload
