Wikimedia CommonsA new government study shows that a decades-long trend toward retirement at a young age has reversed, probably because we can no longer afford it. In 1950 —45.8 percent of men 65 and older were working, according to a report on 65+ in the United States: 2010, released June 30 by the U.S. Census Bureau. Through the decades of the 1960s, '70s and '80s, generous pension plans made it ever likelier that men would hang up their work boots at earlier ages. By 1993, only 15.6 percent of men were working past age 65. (The number of women 65 and older who remained in the workforce has always been small, rising from 9.7 percent in 1950 to 10.6 percent in 2003.) Then came a perfect storm of factors in the last decade that has encouraged more older men -- and women -- to stay on the job, with workforce participation in 2010 rising to 22.1 percent among men older than 64 and 13.8 percent among women of the same age.  "The rise in labor force participation is interesting as both a potentially long-running trend, and because we saw that during the recession that it was the older workers whose employment share actually rose. They were the only age group to have their employment share rise," says Loraine West, chief of the Eurasia branch of the population division of the Census Bureau and an author of the report.Here are some of the issues — benign and otherwise — that the study suggests are pushing people to work longer. Social Security is the No. 1 source of income for everyone older than 64, with 86.3 percent receiving it. About 52 percent also have income from savings and nearly 40 percent get some pension or other kind of income from their former employers. More than 26 percent also rely on income from work. Expect that percentage to rise. "We haven't seen projections for the future, but researchers had already identified a rising trend in later retirements prior to the recession," West says. Will you ever retire? FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockRetailers are clamoring for their share of the menswear market.  Men are shopping more than ever, thanks to the convenience of the Internet and stores working to tailor to their needs.  We've compiled a list of some of the best and brightest men's fashion offerings, and we want to know your favorites.  Please take a few minutes to fill out the survey below. Thanks in advance for your time and cooperation. We'll publish the results in a couple of weeks. FREE AppDownload
Woodrow Wilson High School; Bill Pugliano/GettyWarren Buffett: young and old.It can be easy to see the world's most powerful and influential people as occupying a sphere far removed from the rest us.  But many of the one-percent started off with conventional first jobs. Goldman Sachs' CEO Lloyd Blankfein, for example, grew up in the projects and made extra money at a concession stand in Yankee Stadium. Warren Buffett built his savings as a kid by delivering newspapers. And before she found her calling in media, Oprah Winfrey worked at a corner store. We'll take a look at 15 highly successful people who made the most of, but weren't defined by, a modest first job. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonA quick search of "Best Cities for Millennials" yields thousands of results, and these articles tend to fall into two types of categories.  The first group highlights all the negative numbers released by the most recent census or unemployment report in an attempt to scare young people.  The second type generally delineates the cultural habits of millennials, showing that there is more to them than unemployment numbers suggest. We've decided to combine the two types into one comprehensive list of the "19 Best Cities for Millennials". On the one hand, we examine the unavoidable realities of being a young adult in the United States, including rising housing and rent prices, unemployment rates, the cost of living, and crime rates. On the other hand, we consider cultural appetites such as the entertainment and sports scenes, the average costs of beer, and where to find the best pizza in America. (Because, pizza.) We combined all these variables into a valuation function to determine a Value According to Millennials Score, or VAM Score. The city that scored the lowest is number 19, and the city that scored the highest is number 1. If you want to read more about how we came up with these numbers, click here. Otherwise, click on the slide show to see the 19 Best Cities for Millennials. FREE AppDownload
    Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis and Kamelia Angelova. Additional camera by Justin Gmoser. FREE AppDownload
The U.S. unemployment rate has fallen to 6.1%, but among the states there remains a wide variation in the state of the job market. Via Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok, here's a nice chart ranking the states from the worst unemployment rate to the best unemployment rate. As you can see, the worst in the country are Rhode Island, Nevada, and Kentucky. The difference between the red and the blue bars shows how much each state has improved since the worst of the recession. Both Ohio and Pennsylvania are huge gainers by that measure. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
Sky Gould/Business InsiderElana Simon survived a rare cancer — and is now trying to cure it.Before queuing up "Pomp and Circumstance," let's take a moment to recognize the best and the brightest high-school seniors in the U.S. All of these wunderkinds — including an Olympic athlete, a cancer survivor, a researcher, a Thiel Fellow, a self-published novelist, and a musical darling who's been admitted to all eight Ivy League schools — show that age has no bearing on what people can accomplish. Based on reader nominations, local news stories from around the country, and word of mouth, we found the most impressive students graduating from high school this year. FREE AppDownload
RedfinThis home in San Francisco sold for nearly 80% over its asking price.The San Francisco real estate market is on fire right now, as rent and home prices have risen so astronomically as to become unaffordable for many.  Buying a home in San Francisco is incredibly competitive, too. According to data from national real estate brokerage Redfin, a whopping 69.1% of homes in San Francisco sold above their asking price in May of 2014. The average San Francisco home spent less than two weeks on the market. For comparison, only 24.5% of homes nationally sell for more than their asking price, and they take over a month to sell.  Plus, according to Redfin, the median home sale price for San Francisco this past May was $910,000. Nationally, the median sale price was $298,033. Whether or not you believe the influx of tech workers is leading to gentrification in San Francisco, the numbers show that real estate there is getting harder and harder to get. We've rounded up some of the craziest home sales to go down in the last six months.  FREE AppDownload
After this week's strong Jobs Report, it's becoming conventional wisdom that the economy is heating up for real this time. After numerous false starts and disappointments since the financial crisis, it appears we've kicked into a higher gear. A stronger economy should mean higher inflation. That's because as the economy grows, slack diminishes in the economy (both industrial slack and labor market slash) and that puts pricing pressure on existing resources. It makes sense, as the unemployed become more scarce, employed workers have greater bargaining power for wages. These three charts from Deutsche Bank economist Torsten Slok make for a good overview of the case that inflation is coming. First, Capacity Utilization is high. Capacity Utilization is something measured by the Fed to judge how much of the nation's factories and industrial facilities are being used. Historically, when Capacity Utilization is as high as its now (suggesting not much industrial slack) the inflation rate has been much higher. Deutsche Bank Meanwhile, business are finding it harder and harder to fill job openings. According to survey data from the National Federation of Independent Businesses, more and more companies are saying they can't find qualified applicants for job openings. Again, this is a function of the mass of unemployed starting to disappear. Deutsche Bank And then naturally, because companies are having a harder time finding employees, they're indicating that salary increases are coming. Survey data shows a big increase in the number of businesses who say they plan to raise wages in the future. Deutsche Bank  Bottom line: Industrial slack is disappearing, companies are having a harder time finding workers, and they're planning on raising wages. Inflation — which has been dormant for years — is coming. FREE AppDownload
In recent days we've received plenty of evidence that the economy is accelerating. Here's the latest: Rail traffic. The American Association Of Railroads put out its latest weekly look at industrial rail traffic on Wednesday, and it showed that activity is surging. The Association of American Railroads (AAR) today reported increased U.S. rail traffic for June 2014, with both carload and intermodal volume increasing compared with June 2013. U.S. Class I railroads originated 1,177,655 carloads in June 2014, up 3.6 percent (41,310 carloads) over June 2013.  Year-over-year monthly carload growth averaged 4.9 percent from March 2014 through June 2014, the highest average for any four-month period since December 2010 through March 2011. Total carloads averaged 294,414 in June, the highest weekly average for June since 2008. This table shows nicely, how in a range of industrial categories, rail traffic growth is on fire. AAR FREE AppDownload
The Fed is continuing to slow the growth in the amount of credit it is creating. In December 2013, the year-over-year growth in the sum of Fed outright holdings of securities and its net repurchase agreements (repurchase agreements minus reverse repurchase agreements) was 41.1%. As of May, the year-over-year growth in this sum had slowed to 24.8%. At the same time that growth in Fed credit creation has slowed, growth in commercial bank credit creation has increased. In December 2013, year-over-year growth in the break-adjusted commercial bank credit was 1.0%. As of May, year-over-year growth in break-adjusted commercial bank credit had risen to 3.6%. In the five months ended May, the compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of break-adjusted commercial bank credit was 7.4%. For reference, the median year-over-year growth in monthly observations of break-adjusted commercial bank credit in the past 38 years was 7.0%. As shown in Chart 1, year-over-year growth in the sum of Fed credit and break- adjusted commercial bank credit was 8.5% in May compared to a 38-year median growth rate of 7.1%. Paul KasrielChart 1 Chart 2 shows the deviation between the year-over-year percent change in the sum of Fed and adjusted commercial bank credit from 7.1%, the 38-year median of the year-over-year percent change in this credit sum. As one can see, the year-over-year percent change in the sum of Fed and bank credit had been “deficient”, often severely so, relative to its median from March 2008 through June 2013, with the exception of January 2010. But, as was stated above, in the 12 months ended May 2014, annualized growth in the sum of Fed and break-adjusted commercial bank credit was 8.5%, 150 basis points above its 38-year median percent change. So, the “drought” in the sum of Fed and adjusted commercial bank credit appears to have been broken with the combination of the resumption of Fed net acquisitions of securities in September 2012 and the recent acceleration in the growth of commercial bank credit. Paul KasrielChart 2 As a “refresher”, the reason I pay particular attention to this credit sum is that growth in a variant of it has a strong association positive association with growth in gross domestic purchases (defined as gross domestic product plus imports minus exports). The credit variant includes, in addition to Fed credit and commercial bank credit, credit created by saving institutions and credit unions. Commercial banks, saving institutions and credit unions issue deposits that are redeemable at par. Thus, they are referred to as depository institutions. So, my credit variant is the sum of Fed credit and depository institution credit. As I have explained in previous commentaries, what distinguishes this credit variant from other measures of credit is that credit created by the Fed and depository institutions is credit created figuratively out of “thin air.” As such, it enables its recipients (borrowers) to increase their current spending while not requiring any other entity to pare back its current spending. Plotted in Chart 3 are the year-over-year percent changes of quarterly observations in the sum of Fed and depository institution credit along with gross domestic purchases from Q1:1954 through Q1:2014. When the percent changes in thin-air credit were advanced by one quarter, a higher positive correlation (0.63) was obtained than with the two series compared contemporaneously or with changes in gross domestic purchases advanced by one quarter. This suggests that growth in thin-air credit “causes” growth in gross domestic purchases rather than vice versa. After an economically-depressing, not to mention, psychologically-depressing, severe winter, the U.S. economy appears to be responding predictably to the relatively rapid growth in thin-air credit. Chart 4 shows that both nominal retail spending on goods and the real production of goods have rebounded in growth in recent months. Paul KasrielChart 4 Chart 5 shows that growth in combined new and existing home sales has come roaring back. Paul KasrielChart 5 Chart 6 shows that the least-revised labor market data, the weekly state unemployment insurance benefit data, are indicating an improved labor market environment. Paul KasrielChart 6 Chart 7 shows that U.S. equity prices continue to climb. Paul KasrielChart 7 And Chart 8 shows that no matter how you slice it or dice it, the rate of increase in consumer prices for goods and services is accelerating. Paul KasrielChart 8 The upshot of all this is that unless the Fed wants to create an undesirable inflationary environment in terms of asset prices and/or consumer prices of goods and services, it is time for the Fed to scale back its creation of credit, which it has been in the process of doing since the January 2014 commencement of its monthly tapering in the net acquisition of securities. The Fed also has stepped up the amount of its reverse-repurchase-agreement operations, which serve to reduce Fed credit, all else the same. But the Fed pursuing the correct monetary policy today for reasons it does not understand instills little confidence that it will continue to pursue the correct policy tomorrow. When the Fed announced in September 2012 that it was going to resume its net acquisitions of securities, it did not say that it was doing so in order to boost the then anemic growth in thin-air credit. No, it justified the resumption of net acquisitions of securities in terms of lowering the yields on longer-maturity securities. The Fed never publicly explained how it decided that $85 billion of net securities acquisitions per month was the correct amount. Nor did it publicly explain why the $10 billion tapering of net securities acquisitions per FOMC meeting was the correct amount. The Fed continues to be obsessed with the price of credit, an interest rate, rather than the quantity of credit. Moreover, on those rare occasions when the Fed might mention the quantity of credit, it has never made a distinction between thin-air credit and all other credit. But then, neither have many other economic commentators, save for those of the Austrian School. Let’s make some assumptions to give us an idea as to the likely behavior of thin-air credit over the next year and a half. Assume that the Fed continues to taper its net acquisitions of securities by $10 billion per FOMC meeting, implying that by the December 2014 meeting, it would be making no net new outright acquisitions of securities to its balance sheet. Assume that the Fed maintains the amount of its net repurchase agreements at a level equal to that of the average of the first five months of 2014, $245.9 billion. Lastly, assume that break-adjusted commercial bank credit continues to change at a CAGR of 7.4%, its annualized growth rate in the five months ended May 2014. Chart 9 shows the actual year-over-year percent changes in monthly observations of the sum of Fed and break-adjusted commercial bank credit from December 2008 through May 2014 as well as projected values through December 2015 based on the above assumptions. Paul KasrielChart 9 At the end of 2013, this credit sum had increased by 9.2% vs. December 2012, primarily because of the Fed’s securities purchases. As of this past May, the year-over-year growth in this credit sum had moderated to 8.5% because of the Fed’s tapering of its securities purchases. If my assumptions regarding Fed and bank credit hold, then by December 2014, the sum of Fed and bank credit growth would have moderated further to 8.0% on a year-over-year basis. Let’s pause here to contemplate what this would imply for the pace of economic activity and the behavior of financial markets. Back-to-back years of growth in the sum of Fed and bank credit of 9.2% and 8.0% represents robust growth in this variant of thin-air credit. After the weather-depressed first quarter of this year, I would be expecting a strong rebound in the pace of real economic activity over the remaining three quarters of 2014. I also would expect a continued modest upward trend in the growth of consumer prices for goods and services. If this relatively robust growth in nominal economic activity were to occur, it would create expectations of financial market participants that the Fed would start to raise its policy interest rates sooner than what the Fed is projecting. Thus, yields on Treasury securities from maturities of two years on out, would move higher over the remaining course of 2014. Although the stronger growth in nominal economic activity would be a plus for corporate profits, the rise in interest rates would represent a higher discount factor applied to corporate profits. Thus, although U.S. equity prices could continue to move higher in 2014, the rise in market interest rates would represent a headwind for equity prices. But if my projections for growth in thin-air credit for 2015 are close to the mark, 2015 would be a more challenging year for real economic growth and the equity market. Slowing from 8.0% to 5.5% in thin-air credit growth would represent a significant deceleration. Depending on how the Fed reacts early in 2015 to stronger real growth and higher consumer price inflation in 2014 than it expected, even 5.5% growth in thin-air credit in 2015 might be hard to achieve. If things play out the way I expect in 2014, Fed hawks’ influence on monetary policy decisions would increase in early 2015. Thus, Fed interest rate hikes could come early in 2015. All else the same, these rate hikes would act as a brake on commercial bank credit creation. Thus, the 2015 7.44% CAGR in bank credit assumed in my projection could be too high, which, in turn, would render the assumed 5.5% growth in the sum of Fed and bank credit too high. As I indicated at the outset, the slowing in Fed credit creation in 2014 seems entirely prudent to me. But I would have a lot more confidence in the correctness of Fed policy in subsequent years if I believed the Fed understood why it is correct to slow its credit creation in 2014. Without this understanding, there is a high likelihood of significant Fed policy mistakes in subsequent years. I want to close on a note of personal humility. (As my brother, may he rest in peace, used to remind me, I have so much to be humble about.) In my projections of thin-air credit growth, I have made assumptions about Fed credit growth and commercial bank credit growth. I feel most confident about Fed credit growth and least confident about bank credit growth. After all, my assumption of 7.44% CAGR in bank credit going forward is nothing but the simplistic assumption that what happened in the past 5 months will persist in the next 19 months. Thus, the outlook for thin-air credit growth could change significantly in the weeks and months ahead. That is why every Friday afternoon I update my spreadsheet on it. If things do change significantly from what I have assumed here, I will alert you to this. NOTE: This post was originally published on June 24, 2014. FREE AppDownload
AmazonJPMorgan just released its 15th annual summer reading list.  Every year, the firm compiles book suggestions from their advisors all over the world. From more than 500 entries, the bank narrows it down to just ten titles they think are timely and innovative. We've included the ten books in the slides that follow.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason LeeWang QishanBEIJING (Reuters) - No part of China's ruling Communist Party is off limits for its crackdown on corruption, the country's top graft buster was quoted as saying, sounding a warning a few days after the one of the country's most senior former soldiers was purged. The party this week announced that Xu Caihou, who retired as vice chairman of the powerful Central Military Commission last year, had been expelled from the party and will be court-martialled after being accused of corruption. President Xi Jinping, who heads the Central Military Commission, which controls the 2.3 million-strong armed forces, has launched a drive against pervasive graft since assuming office. Speaking during a visit to the northern region of Inner Mongolia, Wang Qishan, who heads the party's efforts to combat corruption, warned that every part of the party would be liable for inspection. "Inspection work is a 'health check' for the party. There are no off limits for oversight within in the party, and there are no exceptions," the party's graft watchdog cited Wang as saying, in a statement issued late on Friday. President Xi has vowed to take down powerful "tigers" as well as lowly "flies". Xu is the most senior person to date to have been felled. However, a potentially far juicier scandal is brewing - the case of the powerful former domestic security chief, Zhou Yongkang. Sources have told Reuters that Zhou is under virtual house arrest, and while the party made no announcement about his case, many of his allies have been publicly taken down. On the same day Xu's fate was announced, three other former senior officials were also expelled from the party, all closely connected with Zhou, including the one-time head of the state assets regulator and a former deputy public security minister. The party has sent numerous teams into the provinces and government departments to expose corruption. Problems discovered during this process show that the party is "absolutely correct" in its judgement that corruption remains a serious and complex problem, Wang added. "It warns us that we must take the arresting of the spread of corruption as our aim and mission, and that these inspections are absolutely something we cannot do without," he said.   (Reporting by Ben Blanchard and Chen Aizhu; Editing by Ron Popeski) FREE AppDownload
Poster"We Get Married" was one of the most popular Chinese shows last year.The rise of emerging markets is taking place in TV, too, with China set to pass the U.K. in 2014 and Germany in 2016 to become the second most valuable TV market behind the U.S. Here's a chart showing the big winners and losers from a new PwC report on TV subscription and license fees: www.pwc.comChina is also emerging as a dominant market for Hollywood, with the latest "Transformers" movie achieving a jaw-dropping $90 million Chinese opening weekend, just $10 million behind the U.S. box office. No wonder studios are packing movies with Chinese stars. FREE AppDownload
SET SolutionAnother iWatch concept.PARIS (Reuters) - Apple has poached a senior executive from Swiss luxury watch brand Tag Heuer, which could be to help it with the launch of its iWatch expected this autumn. Tag Heuer, part of luxury goods group LVMH, said on Friday its vice president for sales, Patrick Pruniaux, who had been with the brand for seven years, was leaving on Monday to join Apple. It did not say what his new job would be. Apple declined to comment. The iWatch will be the closest the U.S. company has come to selling a fashion accessory and marks its first foray into the personal luxury goods market. It is in a race against Samsung Electronics and Google to turn computers into wearable fashion and must-have items as smartphones, increasingly becoming commoditized items, start loosing their appeal. Apple has plucked several executives from the luxury sector in recent months. Burberry ex-Chief Executive Angela Ahrendts started as its new head of retail and online sales in May, and former head of French fashion brand Yves Saint Laurent Paul Deneve was hired last year to work on special projects. "I think he was probably head-hunted," a Tag Heuer spokeswoman said of Pruniaux, adding a replacement had already been found. Analysts and industry executives say the jury is still out on whether smart watches will disrupt the luxury Swiss watch industry. "I don’t believe that an iWatch will be a threat to luxury Swiss watches," said Jon Cox, analyst at Kepler Cheuvreux in Zurich. "But where I do see some potential impact is at lower, for example below $1,000, price points where there could be a temporary dislocation if there is super high demand for iWatches." Jean-Claude Biver, head of watch brands at LVMH and chairman of watch brand Hublot, said he believed the threat of smart watches had to be taken seriously by the Swiss watch industry. "The iWatch will have the same status symbol power as many other Apple products, especially at the beginning," he said. "I personally believe it has the potential to be a threat for the industry, and it should not stay with its arms crossed." Apple applied for a trademark for the "iWatch" in Japan, a patent official said earlier this week, signaling the iPhone maker could be moving ahead with plans to launch a watch-like device soon. Speculation has been mounting that Apple was preparing to launch an iWatch which would include multiple health and fitness sensors and access to features such as messages and notifications through integration with the iPhone and iPad.   (Editing by Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
