BINassim Taleb says that with some books you should read the text and skip the footnotes. Others, read the footnotes and skip the text. With business books, "skip both the text and the footnotes." Ben Horowitz's new book, The Hard Thing About Hard Things, is not one of those books. Yes, it's a business book. But Horowitz isn't an academic or a journalist. He's an entrepreneur, former CEO and successful venture capitalist. And he's not offering fluffy encouragement. He's written a book of war stories about what it's like to fail, lay off staff, watch your stock lose almost all its value, lose sleep, cry, and throw up over the stress of running a start-up. "While most management books focus on how to do things correctly, so you don't screw up," Horowitz writes, "these lessons provide insight into what you must do after you have screwed up." Everyone interested in business should read this book. Here are 10 things Horowitz wrote that caught my attention.  "There are no shortcuts to knowledge, especially knowledge gained from personal experience. Following conventional wisdom and relying on shortcuts can be worse than knowing nothing at all." "In my experience as CEO, I found that the most important decisions tested my courage far more than my intelligence." "TAKE CARE OF THE PEOPLE, THE PRODUCTS, AND THE PROFITS— IN THAT ORDER." "All the mental energy you use to elaborate your misery would be far better used trying to find the one seemingly impossible way out of your current mess. Spend zero time on what you could have done, and devote all of your time on what you might do. Because in the end, nobody cares; just run your company." "People won't remember every day they worked for your company, but they will surely remember the day you laid them off. They will remember every last detail about that day and the details will matter greatly. The reputations of your company and your managers depend on you standing tall, facing the employees who trusted you and worked hard for you. If you hired me and I busted my ass working for you, I expect you to have the courage to lay me off yourself." "Startup CEOs should not play the odds. When you are building a company, you must believe there is an answer and you cannot pay attention to your odds of finding it. You just have to find it. It matters not whether your chances are nine in ten or one in a thousand; your task is the same." "No, markets weren't 'efficient' at finding the truth; they were just very efficient at converging on a conclusion— often the wrong conclusion." "Looking at the world through different prisms helped me separate facts from perception. This ability would serve me incredibly well later when I became an entrepreneur and CEO. In particularly dire circumstances when the 'facts' seemed to dictate a certain outcome, I learned to look for alternative narratives and explanations coming from radically different perspectives to inform my outlook."  "The predicament that you are in is probably all your fault. You hired the people. You made the decisions. But you knew the job was dangerous when you took it. Everybody makes mistakes. Every CEO makes thousands of mistakes. Evaluating yourself and giving yourself an F doesn't help." Check it out here.   More from The Motley Fool Warren Buffett has made billions through his investing and he wants you to be able to invest like him. Through the years, Buffett has offered up investing tips to shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway. Now you can tap into the best of Warren Buffett's wisdom in a new special report from The Motley Fool. Click here now for a free copy of this invaluable report. FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Election Committee said on Thursday that the virtual currency, bitcoin, could be used for donations to political action committees under certain conditions. In a unanimous vote, the FEC, which enforces U.S. campaign finance laws, said a political committee could accept donations in bitcoins up to an individual limit of $100 for each election cycle and could also purchase bitcoins. But the advisory opinion, issued in response to a request for guidance by the Make Your Laws political action committee, said the committee "must sell the bitcoins it purchases and deposit the proceeds into its campaign depository before spending those funds." The FEC did not approve the use of bitcoins to purchase campaign goods and services. The agency approved the request by the Make Your Law committee to accept individual bitcoin donations to $100 for each electoral cycle, require contributors to list their names, addresses, occupations and employers, and affirm they own the bitcoins they are contributing. Bitcoin, the most popular digital currency, is not backed by any government or central bank, and its value can swing dramatically based on demand. Users can transfer bitcoins to each other online and store the currency in digital "wallets." The FEC said it concluded that bitcoins were "money or anything of value" under federal election law. But it acknowledged that "government agencies, courts and others are grappling" with whether virtual currencies should be treated as money. The U.S. Justice Department warned last year that many virtual currency services did not have the proper controls in place to prevent money laundering and could be used to dodge U.S. laws. (Reporting by Peter Cooney; Editing by Mohammad Zargham) FREE AppDownload
Five Nobel-Prize winning economists have signed onto an academic report published Tuesday in the London School of Economics calling for an end to the "war on drugs," calling it a "global failure." The report, titled "Ending the Drug Wars," points to a failure to stem the flow of drugs around the world in addition to other negative effects, including violence in Afghanistan and Latin America, the explosion of drug-related incarceration in the United States, and an HIV epidemic in Russia, Al Jazeera reports. Far from winning the fight, the report says the United Nations' "one-size-fits-all approach" has instead created a $300 billion black market. "It is time to end the 'war on drugs' and massively redirect resources towards effective evidence-based policies underpinned by rigorous economic analysis," the authors write in the forward of the report. "The pursuit of a militarized and enforcement-led global 'war on drugs' strategy has produced enormous negative outcomes and collateral damage." Signatories include Nobel Prize winners Kenneth Arrow (1972), Christopher Pissarides (2010), Thomas Schelling (2005) Vernon Smith (2002) and Oliver Williamson (2009), as well as George Shultz, former Secretary of State under President Reagan, British Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg, and former NATO and EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana. Among recommendations offered to the U.S. specifically, Ernest Drucker writes that mandatory minimum sentences for drug offenders should be ended and blanket amnesty should be offered for drug offenders already behind bars. "The rapid rise in incarceration in the U.S. and several other countries ... " Drucker writes, has "impacted those imprisoned but also their families and communities." While it does call for an end to the "war," the report does not call for legalization of all drugs — instead the authors ask for "rigorously monitored" experiments with legalization with a focus on public health and a minimization of the illegal drug trade as keys to solving the problem. You can read the full report here &gt; FREE AppDownload
Brooklyn Brewery general manager Eric Ottaway debunks one of the most common beer myths. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis &amp; Kamelia Angelova. Additional camera by Daniel Goodman. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Pilar Olivares FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. There Are Now Officially More Bulls Than Bears (Bespoke) The balance of sentiment among investors has officially gone bearish, according to the American Association of Individual Investors' weekly poll, despite stocks being just points away from new all-time highs: Bespoke Anyone Who Says 'This Time Is Different' Is Usually Wrong (David Leonhardt) Stocks have only seen these kinds of valuations two other times: in the run-up to the 1929 crash, and before the 2007 crash. Some say this time is different. And it's unlikely we'll see a comparable reckoning to those two moments. But the odds that we'll emerge totally unscathed seem unlikely. “You can always think of reasons of why now is different,” Yale Nobel laureate Robert Shiller tells the New York Times' David Leonhardt, who also quotes this from Harvard's John Campbell: "One should be skeptical of ‘This time is different’ arguments.”  Researchers Probing How To Teach Finance To Benighted Americans (The Atlantic) In a 2012 study, just 14% of 25,000 Americans surveyed were able to answer basic questions about interest rates, mortgages, bonds, inflation, and risk-taking. Researchers at the University of Arizona are trying to fix that. "The hope is that the study's long-term results will help financial educators learn more about what causes people to spend, save, take on debt, rely on payday loans, or buy homes they cannot afford. 'If we look at how these behaviors are formed, we have a better chance of intercepting them,' says Joyce Serido, one of the study's primary researchers and an assistant professor at the University of Arizona." Study: Sell-Side Researchers No Better Than Its Dubious Counterparts (Bloomberg View)  Jonathan Weil catches this study showing sell-side research analysts performed no better than paid research outfits, which Weil says often have a less than stellar reputation. "The authors studied a sample of 247 stock-research reports that were paid for by the companies being written about. They found the reports were just as reliable as comparable analyst reports issued by conventional brokerages. That's saying something, considering the reputation of paid-for research shops as hired guns, hype artists and pump-and-dump promoters." FREE AppDownload
Good morning, and welcome to Friday! Here’s what you need to know. Australia’s recovery. It’s five sleeps until the Australian federal Budget, now being talked about as one of the most important in decades. Joe Hockey will stand up next Tuesday to outline government spending plans with an economy that is starting to look in rude health:yesterday’s employment data showed it has added over 100,000 jobs this year, and interest rate rises are now increasingly likely by the end of the year. Markets are flat. Asian markets recovered some of Wednesday’s losses yesterday, and the US session overnight was mainly uneventful with the Dow up 0.2% and the S&amp;P 500 down just 0.1%. The NASDAQ was down 0.4% with some selling of tech stocks continuing. There wasn’t much news around but a $16 Billion US Treasury bond auction in bonds went at a lower-than-expected yield of 3.440%. Government layoffs. Some 3000 public service jobs could go in the budget, according to reports this morning telegraphing. Our tip for the chop: the Australian National Preventative Health Agency, the force behind campaigns trying to tell people what to eat and drink over the past few years. There are also cutbacks likely at the tax office. Shiner for Crown. James Packer had a great weekend but his company’s stock took a bit of a beating yesterday, down 2.6%. It’s one to watch today: as Ric Spooner from CMC points out here, it’s looking like it has hit a breach of support. Packer-Murdoch meeting. Here’s a question. News Corp co-chairman Lachlan Murdoch went around to James Packer’s house on Monday morning, the day after the fight with David Gyngell. A few hours later Lachlan’s papers published the first photos of the fight. What do you think they might have talked about? You can leave your (non-defamatory) suggestions in the comments. Stock for stories. A US tech journalist has blown the lid on what he thinks is a common practice: companies offering stock to reporters ahead of an IPO. Rugby’s Big Data. Finally, a great example of how it’s not just a buzzword: Business Insider’s Alex Heber got a look inside the NSW Waratahs big data program this week. They get more than 9000 data points from every game and even detect how much force each player is creating and absorbing in the course of a match. It helps them reduce injuries and, yes, decide on tactics. Details here. There’s a thing now called 4D printing. Just as you were getting to grips with how 3D printing is going to change the world, along comes innovation from MIT genius with excellent name, Skylar Tibbits. 4D printers print 3D objects that then go on to build themselves.  Multitasking test. There’s a great chance you added “ability to multitask” in some form on your resume somewhere. Chances are you can’t, according to this study. If you don’t believe us,take the test. Here comes Monica Lewinsky. The world’s most famous intern is prepping media for her essay on what’s she’s been doing for the last 10 years, which will appear in the next issue of Vanity Fair. The five things Monica Lewinsky has learnt since spending part of that famous day in the 90s under Bill Clinton’s desk shows she’ll probably never be able to move on from it. Bonus item: Your Friday Protip – if you ever find yourself on a TV dating show, here’s the one admission you should never, ever make but the one that all the other contestants are glad you did. Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Shannon StapletonThe $35 billion merger between Omnicom and Publicis Groupe SA has been called off, the Wall Street Journal reports, citing sources.   The merger, first announced this past July, would have created the world's largest advertising holding company, dethroning current No. 1 WPP. The two companies confirmed the Wall Street Journal's report in a joint statement shortly afterward, saying that they had released each other from all obligations related to the transaction and that no termination fees will be payable by either party. The merger's implosion was foreshadowed by recent reports from the Wall Street Journal, which said the two sides were struggling to get the combined company, planned to be based in the Netherlands, registered as a tax resident of the United Kingdom. Additionally, Omnicom and Publicis were said to be sparring over who would get to be the chief financial officer of the merged company. Omnicom wanted its chief financial officer, Randall Weisenburger, to have the position, while Publicis was pulling for its own CFO, Jean-Michel Etienne. France's Publicis and the United States' Omnicom were also unable to decide which company would legally acquire the other. "The challenges that still remained to be overcome, in addition to the slow pace of progress, created a level of uncertainty detrimental to the interests of both groups and their employees, clients, and shareholders," Publicis chairman Maurice Lévy and Omnicom CEO John Wren said in a joint statement. "We have thus jointly decided to proceed along our independent paths. We, of course, remain competitors, but maintain a great respect for one another." Had it been completed, the merger would have brought many of the world's most prominent advertising and public relations agencies under one roof, including Omnicom agencies BBDO, DDB, and Ketchum, and Publicis agencies Saatchi &amp; Saatchi, Leo Burnett, and BBH. The idea was to provide the combined company with the sort of scale required to maintain leverage against online advertising companies like Facebook and Google, platforms on which Omnicom and Publicis' clients are spending more and more of their budgets these days. By buying ads in greater bulk, Omnicom and Publicis would theoretically be able to fetch lower prices and pass those savings on to their clients. One person who is sure to be pleased by the news is the highly competitive WPP CEO Sir Martin Sorrell, who is bitter rivals with Publicis' Lévy. Since the merger's announcement, Sorrell has taken every available opportunity to insult Publicis and Omnicom, attacking them for what he said would be a "clunky" corporate hierarchy on a conference call back in August. It was then that Sorrell said combining the two companies' corporate colors (Omnicom's orange and Publicis' purple) would create a "sludgy brown" mixture. Secure in his position as head of the word's largest advertising company, Sorrell told the Financial Times that the deal “seems to have been driven by emotion to knock WPP off its perch and, of course, by French charm." He added: “In the end, it was a case of eyes bigger than tummy." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidAdam SieminskiIf shale energy production booms in the U.S. but no one's there to count the barrels, does it make a sound? Thankfully, this conundrum has yet to materialize. Adam Sieminski has virtually guaranteed it never will.   Two years into his term as the administrator of the U.S. Energy Information Administration in Washington, Sieminski has helped put a quantifiable face on what's been an unprecedented surge in unconventional oil and gas production. As demand for information has increased, Sieminski has successfully ushered the EIA into the big data era. "There were things EIA  simply couldn’t do in the existing surveys and resources available to the agency," until now, he told BI in a phone interview Friday.  In many ways the EIA has come full circle. It was created in 1977 as part of the federal government's frenzied attempt to grapple with 1970s energy shocks. In its write-up of Senate discussions to found the agency, the New York Times noted one senator had complained among other things about  "a seemingly endless argument over basic natural gas data" covering reserves and production.  Today, Sieminski said, the agency manages "millions and millions" of data points.  They now run 41 different email lists with over 440,000 total subscriptions.  Until he took over in 2012, Sieminksi's 40-year career as an energy analyst was spent largely in the private sector, most recently at Deutsche Bank. For Kevin Book, the managing director of Cleaview Energy Partners, that experience has been  critical to his success. "He was, for many years, a consumer of EIA’s products, so he may be uniquely positioned to improve them," Book told us in an email. "Adam worked for decades – as I do – as an analyst, relying as all energy analysts must on EIA’s output. Adam also came directly to EIA from the National Security Staff where, in that capacity, he was trying to make decisions that relied on EIA’s data. In other words: he’s been both kinds of customer." His achievements haven't gone unnoticed. This year, the agency got a 17.6% budget increase, to $117 million. As far as federal budgets go, it isn't much. But Sieminski says it speaks to a recognition of the agency's work. "In the world of tighter and tighter public finances, that’s a huge success for EIA, and a reaffirmation that we’re doing critical work that is valued by both parties here in Washington."  Under his watch, Sieminski has expanded the agency's reach both locally and abroad. They've beefed up state-specific data through a new state energy portal, and relaunched the International Energy Outlook, which had been suspended in 2012. Last year the agency rolled out a huge new portal for state electricity data.   Among energy analysts, the consensus is that Sieminski's greatest recent success was the launch of the monthly Drilling Productivity Report. The releases, which began last October, provide up-to-date and short-term forecasts of drilling output in the country's six major shale oil and gas production plays. Judith Dwarkin, the chief energy economist at ITG Investment Research in Calgary, says the report fits the pattern of robust response to data demand.  "The EIA continuously improves the breadth and depth of the data it provides regarding energy markets, along with thoughtful synopses on topical issues," Dwarkin told us by email. "The Drilling Productivity Report launched under Adam Sieminski’s watch is a case in point."  Book said it represents a "big departure" from previous reports that were largely retrospective. Sieminski agreed the Annual Energy Outlook, which is still published but relies on lagged data, wasn't cutting it. The 2013 edition was rendered obsolete within months of its release as production screamed higher, so Sieminski went about creating a more forward-looking product. "We asked what it would take to get a good estimate of current oil production, and we said 'Well if we do it the standard way, it will take a year for OMB to approve a new survey," he said. "So we said 'Well, what can do with existing data from states and private vendors?' And we came up with a methodology that looks at hte six fastest-growing areas." There's more coming down the pike: Sieminski says the agency plans to add 15 more states to its production survey, near-real-time electricity generation data, and  compile more data on fracked wells, including chemicals being used. And they have not neglected renewables growth, although he said their focus is largely proportional to an energy source's share in the economy. As one might expect, Sieminski was quick to praise his colleagues, saying he was  struck by their dedication to public service and "trying to really actually provide good value to the public for the resources they [pay] ... to being accurate and objective, and doing a good job, to help maintain the trust of the public, has been extraordinary." People are starting to notice. FREE AppDownload
Daniel Berehulak/Getty ImagesWhen former Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner asked Bill Clinton for advice about opposition to the bank bailout, the ex-president encouraged him to imagine murdering Goldman Sachs Chairman Lloyd Blankfein. Geithner recounted Clinton's words of wisdom, which were designed to warn him against trying to appease those who were raging against Wall Street during the height of the financial crisis, in an interview with The New York Times Magazine that was published online Thursday. "You could take Lloyd Blankfein into a dark alley," Clinton said, according to Geithner. "And slit his throat, and it would satisfy them for about two days. Then the blood lust would rise again." Geithner spoke with the Times' Andrew Ross Sorkin to promote his upcoming book "Stress Test: Reflections on Financial Crises," which is due out May 12. In addition to the story about Clinton's cutthroat advice, Sorkin also shared an interesting quote from the book about an awkward run-in Geithner had with Larry Summers when President Barack Obama was considering both men as potential picks to head the Treasury Department.  According to Geithner, while he was en route to meet with Obama, he saw Summers at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago. "I ran into Larry, who was, I’m pretty sure, in the process of checking the Intrade odds on Obama’s choice for Treasury," Geithner wrote. "It was kind of awkward for both of us. I told Larry I had not sought the job and had urged Obama to choose him as secretary, which didn’t really make the situation less awkward." Geithner also told Sorkin he began asking Obama to let him leave Treasury in 2010. He said he even proposed alternative options including Hillary Clinton and Erskine Bowles. Obama apparently responded by lobbying Geithner's wife, Carole. "I was not easily convinced," Carole told Sorkin. "That was probably a little surprising to the president."    FREE AppDownload
Sure, you go to college to get a great education. But don't graduate without getting the full college experience. Here is how you can truly make your years in college the "best years of your life." Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook 
TPM/YouTubeFox News didn't have to look far for public outrage over a porn-loving EPA employee. Geraldo Rivera deployed his camera crew this week to a midtown Manhattan diner to get reactions from everyday Americans about an EPA official who watched porn at work but who remains at the agency. The diner is a place "where you do get a great cross-section of people living in the New York metropolitan area," Rivera said. But among those everyday people were a couple of folks who might have been recognizable to Fox's most loyal viewers: Fox Business hosts Charlie Gasparino and Lori Rothman. The pair wasn't identified on screen by their names or titles, though, giving the impression that they were just two commoners having a meal. "Here's the problem," Gasparino said. "You can't get away with that in private industry. There's just no way, you know what I'm saying? Government allows you to get away with it because essentially there's no one watching the store." Rothman agreed. "It's wrong," she said. "It does create a hostile work environment and if anybody should be walking by and kind of look over the shoulder to see what's going on, it's absolutely harassment." If you don't count yourself among Fox Business's tiny audience, you may not have recognized either Gasparino or Rothman. It wasn't until after Rivera showed the footage on Thursday afternoon that Gretchen Carlson identified the pair as fellow Fox dwellers. "Somehow Charlie Gasparino and Lori Rothman from Fox Business Network — " Carlson said before being cut off by Rivera. "Well, we snagged a lot of them," Rivera said. "They're right next door." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Benoit TessierThomas Piketty, director of the Paris School of Economics, at the inauguration of the school in Paris on Feb. 22, 2007. In his review of Thomas Piketty's "Capitalism in the 21st Century," MIT's Robert Solow frames the author's question to his readers like this: Would you rather live in a society in which the real wage was rising rapidly but the labor share was falling (because productivity was increasing even faster), or one in which the real wage was stagnating, along with productivity, so the labor share was unchanging? The answer to this question, according to Piketty, will tell us whether inequality, as bad as it is now, will worsen in years to come. Right now, the answer seems to be that both are happening.  According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, unit labor costs were up 4.2% in the first quarter as productivity declined and hourly compensation increased 2.4%. At the same time, the private sector is adding jobs at an ever-increasing clip. Last week we learned nonfarm payrolls came in at 288,000 for April, compared with 203,000 in March. There's more. The minimum wage is going up in 13 states and Washington, D.C., and hikes are under consideration in a number of other places. Piketty's argument hinges on the notion that if the rate of return on capital, or wealth, outpaces GDP, which can be used as a proxy for consumption, then the rich will get exponentially richer than the rest of society. But just as things have turned up in the labor market, they've taken a turn for the worse in capital markets. Stocks have seen a rough 2014: The Dow is flat on the year, the S&amp;P is up just 2%, and the Nasdaq is off 1.8% year to date. In general, assets across the board have seen low gains year to date. Not even the most unproductive and most notorious forms of wealth have been immune: art auctions are fizzling, and returns on things like furniture and wine are slowing. Hedge funds have been getting slammed. The housing market shows that within wealth inequality, there are some disparities. As CoreLogic observes (PDF), the S&amp;P 500 serves as a good two-month leading indicator of million-dollar-home sales. So it's not surprising to learn that the fastest-growing sales segments are below that level. As of February, sales of homes valued between $650,000 and $950,000 had climbed 33% from year-ago levels, while sales in the $350,000 to $650,000 range were up 26% during the same period. Clearly not everyone's house is valued as such, and rents are going up. But housing gains at the topmost part of the food chain look to have stagnated.  Perhaps the biggest sign is savings. The BLS says those with incomes above $150,000 spend the most on saving for retirement. That comes back to the S&amp;P, but it also comes back to the return you can get from keeping your money in the bank. Thanks to the Federal Reserve those returns have been practically nonexistent for half a decade now. Most analysts agree that the function Piketty describes as having exacerbated inequality is correct, although in a new speech White House economic adviser Jason Furman says there is no guarantee the function will hold in the future.  There's plenty of evidence to show Piketty is still correct. As of May 8, 2014, for instance, the U.S. labor force participation rate remained at lows not seen in decades. But for now we appear to be trending through a moment Piketty said was unlikely to happen. FREE AppDownload
One interest rate that most Americans can appreciate is the 30-year fixed mortgage rate. "At 4.21%, the 30-year fixed-rate mortgage is at its lowest since the week of November 7, 2013," said Freddie Mac in their new weekly report on national mortgage rates. Last week, it averaged 4.29%. A year ago, it was 3.42% Since the housing market crashed, the Federal Reserve has used extraordinarily easy monetary policy to keep interest rates like mortgage rates low in its effort to bolster the housing market and stimulate the economy. Lately, various housing-market metrics such as existing-home sales, new-home sales, and mortgage applications have all been flagging. Last week, we learned that the U.S. homeownership rate was at a 19-year low, and some experts think it'll never come back. "One cautionary note, though, is that readings on housing activity—a sector that has been recovering since 2011—have remained disappointing so far this year and will bear watching ," said Fed Chair Janet Yellen in her testimony to Congress this week. "The recent flattening out in housing activity could prove more protracted than currently expected rather than resuming its earlier pace of recovery." Hopefully, these low, falling rates will hlep get the market humming again. Freddie Mac FREE AppDownload
REUTERSTraders buy and sell assets to make money. If buyers know they are buying into a bubble that is about to burst, they won’t buy the asset. And if there are no buyers for the asset, then the bubble would not exist. Logic dictates that a bubble can only exist if the buyers are “optimists” (a gentle word for those with “irrational exuberance”) or if the buyers believe there will be a “greater fool” to buy the asset in the future when prices are even higher. We can now start to build a theory of how debt stokes bubbles. John Geanakoplos has investigated how debt enhances the buying capacity of optimists, or those who are convinced that asset prices will continue to rise. By enhancing optimists’ buying power in the future, debt increases the probability that a greater fool will indeed be waiting tomorrow. Imagine a world with 100 identical houses for sale. Two types of people populate this world: optimists and pessimists. Pessimists believe that a house is only worth $100,000. Optimists, on the other hand, believe that the value of a house is 25 percent higher, at $125,000. So optimists are willing to buy a house for any price that is equal to or below this amount. This simple model of the world assumes “differences in beliefs” about asset prices, which, as anyone who has discussed house prices with a friend or family member knows, is a pretty realistic assumption. So what will the actual price of a house in this world be? It depends on the number of optimists versus pessimists. If there are enough optimists to buy 100 homes, then the sale price of all homes will be $125,000. But if there aren’t enough optimists and some houses must be bought by pessimists, then all houses must sell for $100,000. The reason for this is that competition implies that all identical houses must sell for the same price. As a result, the market price is equal to the lowest price that clears the market, the price that guarantees there will be at least 100 buyers. Suppose our world begins with no debt. Optimists have to pay cash to buy a house. Moreover, let’s say the total wealth of all optimists combined is limited to $2.5 million. As a result, they can buy no more than 20 houses at $125,000 a piece. The optimists can’t buy all the houses, and the price of houses must therefore drop to $100,000 to attract pessimists to buy. Without debt, the price of all houses is $100,000, and optimists buy 25 houses while pessimists buy the remaining 75 houses. How does the introduction of debt financing affect the price of houses? Suppose we now allow optimists to borrow 80 percent of the value of a house. In other words, for any home purchase, they only need to put 20 percent down in cash before getting the loan. The ability to borrow dramatically expands the buying power of the optimists. For every $1 of cash they put in, they can borrow $4 of debt. They can now leverage their cash of $2.5 million five times to buy houses worth up to $12.5 million. In fact, with the enhanced purchasing power that debt affords, optimists can buy all 100 houses in the market. When we introduce debt, the price of a house will be determined by the optimists’ willingness to pay. House prices immediately jump to $125,000 each when debt is introduced. In the world with debt, optimists buy all the houses. They put down 20 percent, or $25,000, for each house, and they borrow the rest. But who is willing to lend to the optimists? Nobody is willing to part with their hard-earned money unless they are sure they will get their money back without loss. Since there are only two types of people in our world, pessimists must be willing to lend in order for optimists to borrow. Will the pessimists lend? The pessimist thinks that a house is worth no more than $100,000, so he believes the optimist is overpaying. But he is perfectly willing to lend $100,000 to the optimist to buy the house for $125,000. Why? The pessimist has the house as collateral. In the pessimist’s judgment, the overly confident optimist will be forced to part with his down payment once the bubble bursts and prices return to their true valuation of $100,000. But the pessimist understands that his money is protected. He made a loan of $100,000, and the house is ultimately worth $100,000. In this simple example, debt facilitates an increase in the price of assets by enabling optimists to increase their influence on the market price. Ironically, it is the pessimists — even though they disagree with the valuation of optimists — who make it happen. Without help from pessimists, the optimists would not be able to raise the price of a house by 25 percent. This is a crucial lesson when we think of assigning blame after a crash. We are more than willing to blame “irresponsible home owners” who stretched to buy houses. But the house-buying binge was only possible given the aggressive lending behavior by banks. Debt raises house prices in the example above, but is this necessarily a bubble? We label people in our economy as either optimists or pessimists. Whether the increase in house prices represents a bubble depends on which of the two is right. If the optimist is right, then house prices will remain at the elevated level, and there will be no bursting of any bubble and no crisis. However, if pessimists are right, then the increase in house prices will be temporary and sometime in the future the bubble will burst. In addition to facilitating bubbles, debt also helps sustain them— for a while at least—due to its impact on expectations. A relaxation in access to debt means that more optimists can enter today and in the future. This bolsters the belief that there will be a greater fool who will buy the asset at even higher prices. And the party gets even bigger. The expectation of a bubble growing even more entices speculators to enter the market in addition to optimists. Notice that there is an element of animal spirits in our explanation of the housing boom, even when debt plays an important role. The optimists in our framework can be viewed as irrational buyers of homes, willing to pay more and more because they believe house prices will rise forever. In this sense, the debt view and the animal spirits view are not mutually exclusive. But the big difference is the role of debt. In the debt view, the bubble cannot get out of control unless irrational optimists are able to get debt financing to sustain it. Further, even rational speculators may enter the market if they believe that irrational optimists can still get loans as the bubble expands. Debt plays a crucial role. The distinction is important, because some argue that debt had little to do with the house-price bubble in the United States before the Great Recession. Reprinted with permission from House of Debt: How They (and You) Caused the Great Recession, and How We Can Prevent It from  Happening Again  by Atif Mian and Amir Sufi, published by the University of Chicago Press. © 2014 by Atif Mian and Amir Sufi. All rights reserved. FREE AppDownload
MITCiti just came out with a list of disruptive innovations that are going to change the world. The top thing on their list is '4-D printing.' Obviously '3-D printing' gets tons of hype, but we had never heard of the 4-D version until then. The concept is the work of Skylar Tibbits, a researcher in MIT's architecture department, in collaboration with Stratasys Ltd. and Autodesk Inc.  4-D printing takes "smart" materials from a 3-D printer that can assemble themselves. So instead of just printing out a chunk of shaped plastic, you can actually create shapes that a fixed 3-D printing nozzle couldn't accomplish. The potential uses for this range from extreme condition architecture to adaptive infrastructure, like pipes that expand and contract depending on water volume. There's also potential in medicine: various implants could be inserted in a packed form, then take their true shape once they reach their destination.   Tibbits has a bunch of amazing videos on Vimeo showing how 4-D printing works in the lab.  We GIF'd them for maximum mind blowing.      4D Printing: Truncated Octahedron from Skylar Tibbits on Vimeo.  4D Printing: Self-Folding Surface Cube from Skylar Tibbits on Vimeo. FREE AppDownload
APColorado Democrat Jared Polis announced Thursday that he will begin taking contributions in Bitcoin. Polis' decision to start accepting the cryptocurrency came a day after the Federal Election Commission issued guidance for politicians who want to receive Bitcoin donations. "I am thrilled that the FEC has chosen to take a forward looking stance on digital currencies, recognizing the rights of individuals seeking alternatives to government backed currencies to participate in our democratic political process," Polis said in a statement. "Bitcoin, and other digital currencies, are just beginning to show the world what a tremendous tool they can be; whether it is reducing transaction costs in developing nations, giving people more options for engaging in commerce, or sending Representatives dedicated to advancing personal freedom to Congress." Polis' statement declared, "Jared Polis for Congress is the first campaign to begin accepting Bitcoin under the new guidance from the FEC." Texas Congressman Steve Stockman began taking Bitcoin contributions for his unsuccessful Senate bid late last year. In the announcement, the Polis campaign noted it would " continue to accept dollars." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonAn ugly Treasury bond auction has people thinking twice about the world's hunger for U.S. debt. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Edrington AmericasIf you drink on Wall Street, you must (at some point) drink scotch. If you care about scotch, you must have a brand. This is a topic over which many of the most staid bankers in the world are willing to come to blows, but general consensus is Macallan is ridiculously good scotch. This kind of agreement on Wall Street, ladies and gentlemen, is rare. So we had to get to the bottom of who makes Macallan, how, and why exactly it's become such a heavy favorite? To do that, we talked to Paul Ross, the CEO and president of Edrington Americas. It's the new, U.S. branch of Edrington International, the company that owns Macallan, charged with making their portfolio more popular in the United States. It's a recent push, and Ross, a Scottish former CPA with an easy smile and thick brogue, seems like a solid choice for it. Business Insider sat down in his office, he poured out some Macallan, and we got straight to the business of his business. "People aren't' drinking more, they're drinking better," he said, especially in the United States. Edrington, which is owned by the largest charity in Scotland, The Robertson Trust, has had success in markets like Asia and Africa. Where big companies like Pernod Ricard are heading east to conquer new markets, Edrington has to head west to the United States, where 40% of the world's premium spirits are consumed. "This is about the next decade for us because we're investing $200 million in the Macallan estate," Ross said. The fact that his company is owned by a non-profit, he added, allows them to take long-term views like that. Edrington is focused not on the next quarter or even year, but on the next 20 years. That's why Macallan uses no artificial coloring and is aged in sherry oak casks that cost 10 times the bourbon casks many scotch distillers use. Seventy percent of the flavor in your glass comes from that wood. When a bottle of 12-year can cost you upwards of $70, it had better. Edrington takes a different approach to marketing as well. At this point, you're not going to see a Macallan commercial. The company has always relied on word of mouth, which has been amplified by the power of social media in recent years, and Edrington is looking to promote the brand by engaging people through experiences — events and partnerships with brands like Bentley and Montblanc. These are memories people can keep and share with others. "People make the story for us," said Ross. "We do some advertising, but it's always back to the product, back to the hero." That being said, we had to ask Ross which of those products is his own personal hero. "If it's my money, Macallan 18 on the rocks." You heard it here first, people.     FREE AppDownload
At the beginning of the year, many investors believed analysts’ forecasts for a faster pace of earnings growth combined with lower valuations would lead to stocks in Europe and Japan outperforming U.S. stocks. Now those earnings forecasts are being cut sharply, raising the questions of how much of a value international developed market stocks are and whether they can outperform the U.S. market in 2014. Four times a year investors focus on the most fundamental driver of investment performance: earnings. For U.S. stocks, the earnings reporting season has produced nearly all the gains in the stock market over the past four years with nothing but volatility, on average, during the other weeks of the quarter. The earnings season in the United States is now nearly over with 374 of the S&amp;P 500 companies—representing 80% of the market value of the index—having reported. While the earnings season will only reach the halfway point this week in Europe and Japan, the difference so far between their earnings results and guidance and U.S. markets is striking. High hopes of an overseas earnings rebound are being disappointed, which may be creating a performance headwind. LPL Financial There are three areas of key regional differences in the global first quarter earnings season: expectations, growth, and guidance [Figure 1]. The decline in expectations raises questions about the “discount” in valuation, or forward price-to-earnings ratio (measured by the current price per share divided by the expected earnings per share over the next four quarters). Stocks in Europe and Japan currently trade at about a 10% discount to U.S. stocks [Figure 2]. However, if earnings expectations continue to decline, those forward valuations will climb as the price is divided by lower earnings. This may result in a rise in relative valuations that could significantly reduce or even eliminate the “discount” of Europe or Japan to the U.S. market. LPL Financial That said, with Japan trading at the biggest discount to the United States in the past 10 years, it appears investors may already have adjusted their expectations for relative earnings growth and are more guarded about future prospects than analysts. However, it is hard to see these regions outperforming the United States on ongoing sharp downward revisions to analyst earnings expectations. We remain convinced that developed foreign stocks will have a hard time outperforming U.S. stocks in 2014, but may not lag dramatically like they did in 2013. n This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Skyler TibbitsCiti Research is out with a list of 10 disruptive innovations. It's a brand-new list from the one did they did last year. "For the most part, when people think about disruptive innovation, technology is the first thing that comes to mind — smartphones, flat-screen TVs, MP3 players — things that have come on the market that have totally replaced products that we had and make us think, 'How did we ever live without this wonderful machine?''" said Citi's Kathleen Boyle. "But disruption can be so much more than just a better way to listen to music." Check it out: Description: The movement is spearheaded by a guy named Skylar Tibbits, a researcher in MIT's architecture department, in collaboration with Stratasys Ltd. and Autodesk Inc. The idea is this: You used 3-D printers to print out smart materials that can shape or assemble themselves. The concept is still in its infancy, but Citi says this could help people build stuff in extreme conditions, or allow medical devices to construct themselves once they're implanted. "Utilizing a 3-D printer to build the object layer by layer, intelligence can be imprinted directly into the actual structure [via more rigid or flexible materials] dictating the transformation and the eventual shape of the object." Insane stat: The U.S. Army recently contributed $855,000, split among Harvard, the University of Illinois, and the University of Pittsburgh to help advance projects focused on 4-D printing. Relevant graphic: Watch THIS!   4D Printing: Truncated Octahedron from Skylar Tibbits on Vimeo. Description: Citi says that, though it remains at an early stage, mobile banking is going to take off around the world. They forecast an 86% compound annual growth rate to $447 billion from $69 billion in 2016. Although the largest volumes will be in developed markets, the greatest opportunities for new entrants lie in emerging markets thanks to the relative lack of established financial institutions. Meanwhile, more and more banking services will become automated, resulting in savings costs. Insane stat: Norway, Finland, and Sweden operate at branch per population densities two times or more below developed market peers. Relevant graphic: Cash intensity by country.  Citi  Has Bitcoin finally made it? Citi's Steven Englander, who's written about the cryptocurrency, gives a basic introduction and talks up the potential of the block chain (both Bitcoin's and the concept in general). He poses the technology's potential thusly: "Bitcoin advocates who benefit from Bitcoin appreciation argue strongly for its role as an asset, but the transactions technology is generic and efficient and less complicated than introducing an intermediate currency (Bitcoin) to facilitate USD to USD or USD to EUR transactions." Insane stat: As of April 2014, Bitcoinpulse counted 29,000 merchants accepting Bitcoin. Relevant graphic: Price vs. transaction volume. Citi Description: There's nothing new here per se but Citi says growth will start accelerating. The main outcome of this will be more user data. "The digital market uses and generates massive amounts of data and it is this data that differentiates digital marketing from traditional offline marketing. The result is a highly personalized experience for a consumer across all channels in an experience that the prospective or current customer appreciates and they in turn encourage through greater access to their personal data." Insane stat: Real-time bidding-based digital ad spending will see a 66% compound annual growth rate into 2016. (Real-time bidding means the ad-buying and placement process is automatic.) Relevant graphic: The return to publishers from ads is not what it used to be. Citi Description: Citi's interesting suggestion, from analyst Itay Michaeli, for wider market goes like this: "The consumer purchases a new EV at a much lower price ($11-13k depending on size/ cost) and does so worry free of any residual value risk tied to future battery technology advancements. The operator would own the batteries, bill customers and operate battery switching stations that allow consumers to quickly (and robotically) switch batteries when desired or when taking very long drives." Insane stat: Tesla plans to offer a Gen-3 model priced at $35,000. "A $35k price point is historically what’s required to begin the path towards achieving sizeable volume of over 100k units (typically 2-3 years after launch), in theory enough to crown Tesla as the 1st mover in the affordable pure EV market." Relevant graphic: This cost-comparison table. Citi Here is the clearest justification for energy storage we've yet seen, from Citi's Jason Channell: Solar generates its electricity when most households are empty or have limited demand. Saving that electricity for later would dramatically offset consumption prices. He continues: "The potentially greater value is in terms of avoided capacity payments, and the grid stability which storage could provide. If storage could be combined with smart metering and demand response, we could conceivably move to a situation where load is managed (i.e., by dishwashers etc. being turned on automatically when demand was lowest and vice versa) and supply is being managed by storage. This could significantly reduce the amount of stranded capacity and hence wasted cost on an electricity system, as well as improve its reliability." Insane stat: In the first quarter of 2014, solar and wind combined generated 28% of German electricity. Relevant graphic: Here is the breakdown of the potential market size for different storage technologies. Citi Immunotherapy involves training the immune system to both better recognize cancer cells and attack them so that cancer becomes nothing more than a chronic condition. From Citi's Andrew Baum: "While existing chemotherapy or even newer oral drugs have a powerful initial effect on tumor shrinkage (the so called “response rate”), the durability of these responses are typically very short, after which the tumor begins to grow again and starts to spread (metastasize). In contrast, the durability of responses with immunotherapy can last a decade or longer, due to the induction of an ongoing immunological memory, targeting cancer cells for an indeterminate length of time and making it a potential tool to transform a significant percentage of cancers into something akin to a chronic disease." Insane stat: Two-thirds of Western cancer incidence could be successfully treated with immunotherapy. Relevant graphic: Here's how many more people immunotherapy will keep alive.Citi  Description: Insurance securitization represents a threat to reinsurance, which is how insurers currently pool their own risk. Instead of having to dump all that risk into one or two firms, insurance securitization would allow an insurer to spread their risk across capital markets in the form of securitized bundles. Insane stat: Reinsurers had to cut their prices 15% in response to securitizers. Relevant graphic: Most insurance-linked securities are focused on property policies like hurricane insurance. But some tried to get smart and sell life-insurance policies into the capital markets. After the financial crisis, they wised up: Citi Description: Citi bundles a bunch of different technologies into this category. They include: yield mapping, soil sampling and mapping, hyper-local weather detectors, a farming machine Internet, and big data. "Unless there is a major divergence from historical trends, new land will not be nearly enough to meet [global food demand]. Farm productivity needs to take another step higher, and we think Precision Agriculture will be an important avenue to achieve these productivity gains." Insane stat: The average age of a U.S. farmer is 57.  Relevant graphic: Here's how much more food Citi says we're going to need in the coming decades. Citi Description: The world leader? China, thanks to "the up-trend of wages (albeit from relatively low levels), the peaking out of the working population, the high level of job-hopping and the general trend of Chinese workers not wanting low-paid manual assembly, picking, inspecting or packaging jobs in factories." Insane stat: U.S. manufacturing comprises just 12% of GDP, meaning that in that sector at least, there may not be that many more replaceable workers. Relevant graphic: The CAGR for global volumes is about 8.5%. Citi FREE AppDownload
Billionaire oil tycoon T. Boone Pickens just Tweeted this adorable wild-west themed photo of him when he was just little kid. Pickens grew up during the Great Depression.    #TBT Photo from my childhood. Once a cowboy, always a cowboy. #OKState pic.twitter.com/BLYjjsbWle FREE AppDownload
Oil is not the same around the world. It can be light or heavy based on its density. It can be sweet or sour depending on its sulfur content. And these characteristics have major affects on price. "Crude oils that are light (higher degrees of API gravity, or lower density) and sweet (low sulfur content) are usually priced higher than heavy, sour crude oils," explains the Energy Information Association. "This is partly because gasoline and diesel fuel, which typically sell at a significant premium to residual fuel oil and other "bottom of the barrel" products, can usually be more easily and cheaply produced using light, sweet crude oil. The light sweet grades are desirable because they can be processed with far less sophisticated and energy-intensive processes/refineries." Of course there are many other variables that factor into price like access ability, supply, distance to refineries, etc. Morgan Stanley's analysts just published a presentation with a map snapshotting prices around the world. It also includes information about density and sulfur levels. Morgan Stanley
Reuters/ Brendan McDermidThe biggest news to come out of the biggest investment conference of the year on Monday was that David Einhorn is shorting athenahealth, a company that helps small, non-hospital healthcare firms do things like collect bills, process claims, and manage patient records. To David Einhorn this looks like a business process outsourcing company (BPO) — a company that helps other companies. Cool solid business but nothing eathshattering. To athenahealth's CEO Jonathan Bush, this is a radical company changing the face of healthcare through technology. We published Einhorn's main presentation here, but we also get that some people don't want to click trough 67 slides filled with discounted cash flow projections and what not. So we'll keep it nice and simple for you. There are really three big reasons why Einhorn thinks this company's stock is ridiculously overvalued. Before we break all that down, though, here's a recap of the action this week: Since Einhorn spoke the athena's stock has fallen over 15% to around $108. His best case scenario is that it will go down to $50 — worst is that it will sink to $14. Meanwhile, Jonathan Bush, athenahealth's CEO is making the rounds doing damage control, and has said that he still believes the stock is worth $1,000, though he's not sure how anyone comes up with valuations. "I don't know what we're worth," he said on Bloomberg TV. "What I do - I know we're worth $1,000 a share, no problem, at some point in the future. And it's up to David and others to decide when by discounting back what they think… I pulled [the valuation] out of my ear." This is probably not the best thing for a CEO to say, especially since (per our first reason why Einhorn doesn't like this stock) his company hasn't met the expectations that analyst set for it over the past several quarters. The stock started going bonkers back in 2012 when it shot up from $60 to $204 in 16 months. Now, for an explosion like Einhorn says you'd need organic revenue growth of 30%, but athena hasn't come close. In fact, its targets have been lowered for 2014 and 2015. The same thing goes for gross and operating margins. So why are analysts ignoring the fact that this company isn't performing in line with its stock price? Einhorn argues that it is, in part, because of the company's narrative. Bush says that athena is a revolutionary "cloud based software" solution. He compares it to companies like Salesforce, Facebook, Air BnB, Opentable.... "Saying cloud over and over doesn't make it rain," Einhorn wrote in his slide deck. His point is that athena is a BPO, period. That means it's in a peer group with margins averaging around 10% before stock based compensation. Meanwhile, expectations of athenahealth's margins with stock based compensation have been lowered to somewhere around 5% going into 2015. But analysts keep on plugging in numbers based on this anthena-as-Amazon narrative, which means the assumptions (in Einhorn's opinion) get pretty wild. In his presentation he really ripped into Morgan Stanley for doing this in a variety of ways. Einhorn says the Morgan doesn't just confuse athena with Facebook, it confuses it with a bigger company that services bigger, wealthier doctors, but it doesn't do that. From the presentation: "Morgan Stanley says the average doctor currently collects $636,000 annually, on the way to $1.3 million in 2030. Currently, athena’s doctors collect only $370,000 of which athena keeps about 4.4% or $16,000. Athena’s doctors get much less than the national average because athena has a concentration in low-earning primary care physicians. Even if athena were to win higher-billing physicians, athena would adjust its billing rate downward because it prices its business to earn a certain amount per physician, and uses a sliding scale so higher-billing doctors pay a lower percentage... Morgan Stanley assumes athena will recognize $63,000 in revenues per doctor by 2030 from $16,000 today. We think it is more reasonable to assume that revenue per doctor grows with Ambulatory spending. On that basis, Athena's revenue per doctor would still more than double to $36,600 in 2030." More than that, if athena wants to get into that bigger doctor, hospital space it has to contend with the leader in that world, Epic Systems, a company with 100% retention rate among its big healthcare customers. Meanwhile, as those big healthcare customers swallow up little doctors and hospitals (as is all the rage right now), they're switching the little guys into the big guys' system. Einhorn thinks this means that athena could lose customers like Integris, CaroMont, Vanguard and more. Simple stuff, really. FREE AppDownload
FinVizSee prices fall.Long-term bonds are tumbling and interest rates are spiking after a 30-year Treasury bond auction saw weak demand. According to Bloomberg, 30-year Treasury bonds sold at a yield of 3.440%, which was much higher than the 3.392% expected by analysts. The bid-to-cover ratio, a measure of demand, was low at 2.09. Analysts were looking for a ratio of closer to 2.36. The results of the auction came out at 1:01 p.m. ET, which was when prices plunged. Ironically, all of this comes just hours after Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen told the Senate Budget Committee that demand for Treasury securities remains strong. "Interest rates are unlikely to begin rising until we are in a strong economic recovery," she said. Long-term interest rates have been tumbling for most of the last 20 years. And since the financial crisis, the Federal Reserve has taken extraordinary measures to keep rates low in its efforts to stimulate the economy. In the past year, however, the Fed has begun reigning in monetary policy a bit thanks to improving economic prospects. It's currently tapering the rate at which it makes monthly purchases of Treasury securities and mortgage bonds. More and more economists are now predicting that the 20 year old bull market in bonds may finally be ending. Here's a longer-term look at the 30-year bond yield via FRED. FRED FREE AppDownload
Morgan Stanley's research department recently published some "Teach-In" presentations for clients. This interesting slide comes from the firm's 391-slide "Industrials Teach-In." It includes the name, function, manufacturers, and prices of a bunch of farm equipment. Why spend $400,000 on a Rolls Royce Phantom when you can get a John Deere four-wheel-drive, 400 horse power tractor? Morgan Stanley Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
We know that a bunch of our readers spend a lot of time in front of their monitors trading the markets. It's basically their second home, so they have to tailor to their needs and strategy. That's why we'd like you to send us photos of your trading desk setup.  We also want you to tell us what makes your desk so awesome.  And no worries, we'll keep you anonymous if you wish. We're just curious. Here are some things we want to know: What sort of trading platform do you use (CQG, Bloomberg, Trading Technologies, PATS, Redi, Sterling, etc.)?  Is it browser based or a standalone app? Or do you have your own proprietary software? Do you use a Bloomberg Terminal?  Do you use a squawk such as RANsquawk or TradersAudio or something similar? How many monitors do you use? What do you like to look at on your monitors? Any business news sites or blogs that you like to read? Do you have a TV by your trade station? If so, do you watch CNBC, Bloomberg or Fox Business?  Also, where in the world do you trade from?  And do you have anything special such as a killer view of the Hudson or the Pacific Ocean?  Finally, can you give us an overview of your strategy and why your tools are so important for executing it? Please send photos and descriptions to jlaroche@businessinsider.com and llopez@businessinsider.com.  FREE AppDownload
South Fork & SpoonFine dining and bottle service are things we can't easily leave behind when leaving our Manhattan skyline for the Hamptons beach air. And why would we want to?  You can continue to enjoy the high life at your favorite go-to Hamptons hot spots, or try out some of our favorite new finds opening this year.  Every summer, we willingly take the LIRR, The Jitney or the Long Island Expressway and head east until we hit sand.  With only a few week to go until Memorial Day — a.k.a. official beach season — click through to find out what's waiting for you in the Hamptons this year. Click here to see the bars and restaurants &gt; FREE AppDownload
WikipediaHi, I'm the CEO of a red-hot tech company. We're going public soon. Are you a journalist?  Would you like some stock?Here's a startling story about the extent of the lack of self-awareness in Silicon Valley these days, as well as the lengths tech companies are willing to go to win favor and buzz... A leading technology journalist, Adam Lashinsky, writes that he was just offered pre-IPO stock in Arista Networks, a company that makes a new networking technology.  The offer came directly and personally from the company's CEO, Jayshree Ullal: I was surprised but not completely flabbergasted by the phone call I received a few weeks ago. A representative of Arista Networks, a networking company I've written about recently, phoned to inform me that the company's chief executive wanted to offer me "friends and family" shares in Arista's upcoming initial public offering. The offer was explicit, down to the number of shares I'd have the opportunity to purchase at the IPO price. The caller specifically wanted me to understand this offer came directly from CEO Jayshree Ullal. Lashinsky, like any good journalist, called Arista and asked whether the company was bribing other journalists, too. The answer, it sounds like, was, "yes": I phoned Wednesday to ask if other journalists had been offered IPO shares; a spokeswoman pointed me to a section of its Form S-1 filing which states that a directed share program exists -- and nothing more. This response suggests that many people at Arista are involved in the journalist-bribery program, not just the company's CEO. It appears to be an organized public-relations campaign, dreamed up or at least actively supported by the most senior people at the company (who apparently didn't consider the possibility that the company might accidentally offer stock to a journalist with integrity). Adam LashinskyLashinsky views this program as proof that Silicon Valley is once again caught up in the throes of a bubble — a mass delusion in which an entire community has become so enveloped by its own echo chamber that it believes normal rules no longer apply.  This attitude, Lashinsky and others recall, is exactly like the arrogance, delusion, and programmatic wheel-greasing that infected the Valley last time around. (As just one of many examples, in 2000, a San Jose Mercury journalist was "reprimanded" for accepting a similar offer of pre-IPO stock in a Valley company.) FREE AppDownload
We'll keep this short and sweet. Money manager, pundit and author Joshua Brown (aka The Reformed Broker) has a new book coming out this month co-authored with Jeff Macke. It's called 'Clash of the Financial Pundits' and it's basically about every stupid/insightful/crazy thing every talking head's ever said about finance. "The idea behind the book was to humanize the market commentators and give investors better context for the daily barrage of opinions about the markets and economy," Brown told Business Insider. Word is, it also includes the back story of Macke's epic meltdown on CNBC a few years ago. So you want this book, and if you want to get it in your hands for free, all you have to do is win a contest. Check out the Sgt. Peppers-type graphic below and see if you can name every pundit. If you can, you get a signed copy of the book. "The graphic comes from New York-based artist @Darth, whose instant creations have been lighting up Twitter for a long time now," said Brown. "I got him a list of the people who are mentioned in the book and he basically figured out all the placement and who should be where. I'm happy to point out that I am Paul McCartney and my co-author is Ringo - but don't read too much into it." The first five people to ID the pundits and e-mail me with their answers wins (llopez@businessinsider.com). Good luck, and don't mess it up. @darth via Joshua Brown  @darth via Joshua Brown FREE AppDownload
Visual data guru Seth Kadish has a new post up at his Vizual Statistix blog showing the data you'd get if you poured every drink in the world into one big glass. He used the 1,500 recipes in Paul Knorr’s Big Bad-Ass Book of Cocktails, added up the drinks' components (measured in parts) and divided by 1,500 to get the average composition.   The results: 7.2% would have vodka, 5.2% gin, 4.4% orange juice, and 3.6% cream. Twelve percent would have a splash of lime or grenadine (though presumably less lime new given the massive shortage). Just 17% would be served on the rocks. The "mystery mixture" is actually everything too small to register more than 1%, like beer, coke and juices. Check it out: Seth Kadish FREE AppDownload
Steve Jurvetson/flickrSolarCity shares were up as much as 20% Thursday after the solar services firm reported solid quarterly earnings and gave higher guidance for 2014. Following the close of Wednesday's trading session, the Elon Musk-chaired firm raised its full-year 2014 forecast to 500-500 megawatts deployed versus a prior estimate of 475-525 megawatts. Management expects 2015 to basically double that, at 900-1,000 megawatts. They also said they'd set a new quarterly record booking 136 megawatts-worth of projects, most of it residential, adding 17,664 customers in Q1. And they are sticking to their goal of 1 million customers in 2018. Roth Capital Partners' Philip Shen upgraded the firm to "buy" this morning. ...The company continues to make material progress in nearly all aspects of its business (flow, asset yields, and financing costs). SCTY (1) continues to upside deployment expectations and drive scale; (2) has driven down installation costs by ~30% in two years, and we see improvements ahead; and (3) has pioneered the industry’s first DG solar ABS transactions, driving down its cost of financing materially. Shares were trading at $56.20. Other solar firms including First Solar and SunPower were also higher Thursday. FREE AppDownload
We think (think) Sheldon Adelson went on Bloomberg TV to talk about his opposition to online gambling. What he ended up talking about, however, was everything from legalizing prostitution to his peers in the gaming industry who are clearly not up to his stature. "Everybody's following me. Steve Wynn is more of an entrepreneur than the other guys — Caesar's and MGM and Boyd. They're not entrepreneurial," he told Bloomberg TV's Betty Liu. Back to the topic (sort of) at hand, Adelson thinks that online gambling is too hard to control, and that as the owner of the largest gaming company in the world, he has the bona fides to advise the government about that. "I'm saying, coming from the business, I want to make money from those who can afford it. I can't tell over the internet who is underage. I can't tell who's got financial difficulties. I can't tell who is not gaming responsibly. I can't tell if money is being laundering. I can in the casino," he said. "Why don't we legalize prostitution? It's happening all over the place anyway. Why don't we legalize drug addiction? It's happening all over the place anyway. Wherever we can control it, we should control it. Those kinds of things, sins, the sin activity should be controlled." Adelson is more known for throwing tons of money at issues and outspoken commentary than he is for subtly getting his point across. It doesn't always work out well for him, though. For example, you might say that he might as well have lit the $20 million he gave to GOP hopeful Newt Gingrich for the 2012 election on fire and watched it burn. Adelson admitted to Liu that he may have "flunked diplomacy 101." Oh, we know.  FREE AppDownload
Foodies who can afford a $9.99 fee can finally order from chic restaurants that typically don't offer other delivery options. The service is called Caviar, and you can think of it as the GrubHub for rich people. The online ordering startup launched last year in San Francisco and is now active in New York City, Seattle, Chicago, and Washington, D.C., with plans to expand to other cities soon. It has received $15 million in funding, including a $13 million round led by Tiger Global announced in April. "We look for the best restaurants in the city that have great food," partner John Keh told Business Insider. "Our restaurant partners do not have to be the fanciest in town, but if they make some of the best dishes in their category, we partner with them."  Once Caviar partners with a restaurant, it send a professional photographer to capture mouthwatering images for the online menu. "A picture of the food lets you quickly determine if the dish is appealing to you," Keh said. "As the saying goes, we eat with our eyes." Prices on Caviar, which are set by restaurants, can be slightly higher than prices in the restaurant, as noted by Eater. Users also pay a 18% gratuity charge and the $9.99 delivery fee. Caviar gave Business Insider an exclusive list of the ten most popular New York  restaurants on its site, along with the most popular dish from each.  10. L'Apicio: Pork ChopCourtesy of Caviar L'Apicio is a trendy East Village Italian restaurant that's been popular with critics since it opened in 2012. Although known for its polenta and award-winning meatballs, L'Apicio also makes a popular $30 pork chop, served with apples and roasted turnips, which Caviar users love. 9. DBGB Kitchen and Bar: The Frenchie BurgerCourtesy of CaviarThis gastropub by famed French chef Daniel Boulud offers diners a wide selection of house-made sausages and burgers, among other bistro fare. The $17 Frenchie — a burger topped with confit pork belly, arugula, tomato-onion compote, morbier cheese, peppered brioche bun, cornichon, and mustard — is a favorite with Caviar users.  8. Taim: Green Falafel SandwichCourtesy of CaviarTaim, which has locations in the West Village and Nolita, serves some of the best falafel in the city. Taim's most popular item on Caviar is the green falafel sandwich, a cheap option at just $6. It's served with pita on the side.  7. Motorino: Cherry Stone Clam PizzeCourtesy of CaviarIn 2010, New York Times restaurant critic Sam Sifton declared Motorino the best pizza in New York City. Caviar users love Motorino, too, especially the $17 cherry stone clam pizza.  6. Blue Ribbon Sushi: Omakase SushiCourtesy of CaviarBlue Ribbon's sushi outpost is a favorite on Caviar, as is its omakase sushi. The fish selection depends on the daily catch, and at $85, it's a pretty steep choice for lunch.  5. Katz's Deli: Katz's PastramiCourtesy of CaviarKatz's Deli has been a Lower East Side classic for decades, and Caviar users can't get enough of its famous pastrami. You can order the sandwich for $18.45 with Caviar.  4. Momofuku Má Pêche: Pork BunsCourtesy of Caviar Má Pêche, part of the Momofuku dining empire, is a trendy, upscale restaurant with a dim sum-style menu. Its most popular item is the $10 pork buns, served with pork belly, hoisin, cucumber, and scallions. You can also order from Momofuku Milk Bar, which has five locations serving delicious desserts across NYC.  3. Otto's Tacos: Carnitas TacoCourtesy of CaviarThis new East Village spot serves tiny tacos with a choice of five different fillings. The most popular taco on Caviar is the carnitas option, with slow-cooked pork served on a fresh corn tortilla. Each mini taco costs $3.  2. Mission Cantina: Lamb BurritoCourtesy of CaviarMission Cantina is a new Mexican venture from Danny Bowien, the chef behind the critically-acclaimed Mission Chinese. Lines to get in can be long, and it's a hit on Caviar as well. The most popular item is the lamb burrito, served with beans, avocado, crema, queso blanco, salsa fresca, chips, and two types of salsa. 1. Han Dynasty: Dan Dan Noodles Courtesy of Caviar.Han Dynasty is a new Sichuan restaurant in the East Village that regularly has 45 minute waits for a table. It's no surprise delivery service is so popular. The most-ordered dish is an $8.70 Dan Dan Noodles, Sichuan noodles in a spicy sauce containing preserved vegetables, chili oil, Sichuan pepper, minced pork, and scallions. FREE AppDownload
Barclays said that it's going to eliminate 19,000 jobs in an effort to restructure its business. This year alone the bank said it will slash 14,000 positions. The other 5,000 cuts will be by the end of 2016. In addition to the job cuts, Barclays will focus on its business in the U.S., U.K. and Africa. It will also create a "bad bank" of under-performing assets that it wants to take off its balance sheet. Consider this a shift away from riskier banking toward retail banking. Here's a breakdown of where those cuts are going to happen. In the front office, there will be approximately 7,000 folks losing their jobs. Even managing directors will be cut.   Via Barclays FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - As Boston Red Sox fans streamed into Fenway Park last April for an early-season baseball game, a small plane circled above, towing a banner that read "Steve Lynch for Oil Evil Empire." Downtown, truck-mounted video screens looped attack ads against the Democratic congressman, who was running for a Senate seat. The man footing the bill for this sharp-edged campaign, San Francisco billionaire Tom Steyer, called Lynch "Dr. Evil" in a local TV interview because he did not oppose the proposed Keystone XL oil pipeline from Canada to the United States, which environmentalists say would worsen climate change. When Lynch, a former steel worker, lost the Democratic primary to environmentalist Ed Markey, politicians across the United States were served notice: a deep-pocketed activist was willing to punish them if they did not tackle climate change. Steyer's take-no-prisoners stance on Keystone, an issue that divides Democrats, and his willingness to spend millions of dollars to aggressively push his agenda, has raised questions about whether he might undercut the party's chance to retain control of the Senate in the Nov. 4 congressional elections. But Reuters interviews with Democratic campaign officials paint a picture of a man who has evolved from bomb thrower to team player over the past year, even as he has rapidly become one of the most visible players in U.S. politics, a rare liberal with the resources and willingness to counter conservative megadonors like Charles and David Koch. Despite high-profile threats against Democratic lawmakers who don't agree with him, Steyer is poised to work closely with the party's political allies on the shared goal of keeping the Senate in Democratic hands this year, the officials said. While he may not help Democratic candidates who have close ties with the fossil-fuel industry, he is not going to try to hurt them either, they said. It is unclear what prompted Steyer's evolution or whether the change is merely cosmetic. Those who have worked with him in the past say that while his passion is undimmed, he has gotten more strategic in his thinking over the past year. "He started like a bull in a china shop, and then he got some wise counsel as to how the game is played," said one Democratic campaign strategist, who, like many of those interviewed, declined to be named because they work with him. Even if Steyer is now more of a team player, he is still a flame-thrower when it comes to those he sees as his enemies, in particular the Koch brothers. In an open letter to lawmakers in April, he accused the Kochs of seeking to seize "complete control of Congress" by spending tens of millions of dollars on attack ads against Democratic lawmakers. Steyer has in recent days stepped up his attacks on the Kochs, calling on them to "come out of hiding" and take part in a public debate with him on climate change, a challenge the billionaire brothers have declined. "His comments show that he has joined forces with the individuals and groups who have been attacking us for the past four years because they disagree with our exercise of our First Amendment rights of free speech," Koch Industries spokesman Rob Tappan said. Steyer has revealed little about his plans to make climate change a central theme of the mid-term elections. But his organization, NextGen Climate, has started to talk with outside Democratic groups like House Majority PAC that coordinate television ads, phone banks and other election efforts, Democratic strategists said. NextGen said it was also coordinating with other environmental groups like the League of Conservation Voters and the National Resources Defense Council. Even as NextGen has called out oil-and-gas friendly Democrats like Mary Landrieu on its website, Steyer has raised money for a Democratic Senate group that is working to re-elect the Louisiana senator. He has been in touch with Vermont Gov. Peter Shumlin, who as head of the Democratic Governors Association is working to elect Democrats at the state level regardless of their stance on the Keystone pipeline. "He's been very helpful to us," said Shumlin, who first met Steyer at summer camp in upstate New York. "He understands that Democratic governors are going to move the ball much more quickly on the areas that he cares about." NextGen says Steyer's strategy has been consistent all along: support candidates who will make fighting climate change a priority and go after those who don't. Steyer "believes 2014 is a pivotal year when it comes to climate politics and is prepared to provide significant support in races where climate is on the ballot," spokeswoman Suzanne Henkels said. With an anticipated budget of roughly $100 million, NextGen is one of the few outside groups that would have the scale to counter the network of Koch-backed conservative groups like Americans for Prosperity that collectively spent more than $400 million in the 2012 elections. "The Republican and polluting industry denial machinery is immense," said Rhode Island Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, who set up a fundraiser at Steyer’s house in February that raised $400,000 for Senate Democrats. "Having somebody to stand up against that gives courage and confidence to a lot of us - it's not going to be a one-sided media barrage by the polluters." As his national profile has grown, Republicans have portrayed Steyer as a Democratic puppetmaster who has been able to bend the White House and the Senate to his will, contrasting popular support for the Keystone pipeline with Democrats' increasing resistance to it. They accuse him of hypocrisy, saying he profited from oil and coal investments at his hedge fund, Farallon Capital Management, before he became a full-time activist in 2012. Steyer said in 2013 he was selling off those holdings. Republicans and other conservative critics have also suggested that President Barack Obama's decision last month to delay approval of Keystone was influenced by the environmental agenda of the Democrats' deep-pocketed donor. The White House says the decision has been put off for legal reasons. NextGen is expected to campaign against Florida Gov. Rick Scott, a climate-change skeptic, and back Iowa Democratic Senate candidate Bruce Braley. It will identify other races in the coming weeks, a NextGen spokeswoman said. NextGen’s policy of steering clear of races where both candidates are friendly to the oil and coal industries suggests they are unlikely to back Democratic Senate candidates in Alaska, Louisiana, Arkansas and Kentucky. NextGen staffers recently visited Colorado in a sign they might get involved in Democratic Senator Mark Udall's tough re-election campaign. Udall has not taken a position on the Keystone pipeline, but his Republican opponent has said he does not believe human activity is behind climate change. It's another sign, perhaps, that Steyer may be thinking tactically in the months to come. "I don’t think his underlying feelings have changed. But I think he realizes certain things are just not possible," said an academic who has worked with Steyer on his environmental efforts. Steyer's use of brass-knuckle tactics came from a frustration with the genteel approach of other environmental groups, which in the past have emphasized issue advocacy over attack ads and other tools of traditional campaigns, say those who have worked with him over the past several years. "You can push policy and talking points all you like, but unless folks feel the sharp tip of the spear at their jugular, they simply aren’t going to be moved," said California state Senator Kevin de Leon, who has worked with Steyer on environmental issues in the state. Steyer raised money for Democratic presidential candidates in 2004 and 2008 and bankrolled a 2010 effort to defeat a California ballot initiative that would have gutted the state's cap-and-trade law, as well as a 2012 ballot initiative that closed a billion-dollar tax break for out-of-state companies and directed the savings toward renewable energy projects. During that second campaign, Steyer called top officials at companies that benefited from the loophole and gave them an ultimatum to either defend it to the public or stand down, De Leon recounted. The measure passed with little opposition. Steyer can already point to several electoral victories. After the Lynch campaign, NextGen spent $8 million last fall to help Democrat Terry McAuliffe win the governor's race in Virginia. Much of that effort was spent attacking Republican candidate Ken Cuccinelli, who as state attorney general launched an investigation against a University of Virginia climate-change researcher. But NextGen didn't just hit Cuccinelli on climate: the group ran ads criticizing his record on birth control, gun control and ethics. That campaign will serve as a blueprint for this fall's efforts, NextGen staffers said. (Additional reporting by Valerie Volcovici in Washington and Rory Carroll in San Francisco, editing by Ross Colvin) FREE AppDownload
The baby boomers are starting to move into the ranks of the elderly, and this will have a profound effect on the age distribution of the country. The U.S. Census Bureau recently released a report on how the U.S. population will age over the next forty years. Here are some of the most interesting findings. Here's how the number of people over 65 is projected to increase between 2012 and 2050: U.S. Census Bureau By 2050, the U.S. is projected to have about 83.7 million people over 65, nearly double the 43.1 million seniors in 2012. Of course, the rest of the U.S. population is projected to continue growing as well, so here is how the Census thinks the percent share of the population over 65 will change over the next few decades: U.S. Census Bureau In 2012, 13.7% of the population was 65 or older, and that share is expected to consistently rise until about 2030, when seniors will be 20.9% of the population, and then stay at about that level. The big driving factor in that shift is the aging of the baby boomers. Boomers, born between 1946 and 1964, are starting to move into the ranks of people over 65. Since they are the largest generation in U.S. history, the aging of the boomers has a big impact on the country's age structure. Women have traditionally had longer life expectancies than men, and so have been over-represented in the senior population. The Census Bureau predicts that this disparity will continue, but lessen over the next forty years, so that the male/female gap among the elderly will narrow: U.S. Census Bureau The over 65 population will also become more racially and ethnically diverse over time, as can be seen by the projected declining share of people who identify as non-Hispanic white alone in different senior age groups: U.S. Census Bureau The Census also compared the U.S. to other developed countries. All of these countries, including the U.S., are projected to continue aging, but the effect is much more dramatic elsewhere: U.S. Census Bureau The U.S. in 2012 was younger than all the other developed countries, except for Russia. The Census projects that the U.S. will have a relatively lower share of seniors because the U.S. has a much higher rate of younger immigrants moving here than do the other developed countries. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson Tesla is down 8% this morning as analysts digest the electric car maker's Q1 earnings. The company beat on earnings and revenue, but expects to be "marginally profitable" in Q2. It now expects to be free-cash-flow negative in 2014 as it spends on expansion. One thing bears seem to be seizing on is the fact that a significant portion of recent demand came from Norway, according to Jacob Steinberg. Norway gives out generous subsidies to do things like purchase electric vehicles, so some wonder whether demand can be sustained where these subsidies aren't available. There are also concerns about the strength of its leasing program. Leases are only expected to account for approximately 200 deliveries out of 7,500 for Q1 due to lead times. Meanwhile, Elon Musk-chaired SolarCity is up 8% after guiding higher. FREE AppDownload
ReutersWhile most hedge funds are struggling in 2014, Bill Ackman's Pershing Square is having a spectacular year. According to the Wall Street Journal, Ackman's $13.7 billion Pershing Square Capital is up 18.7% for the year through the end of April. To put that in perspective, the S&amp;P 500 is up about 1.6% year to date. According to HFR's HFRX Equity Hedge Index, the average equity hedge fund is down -0.31% year to date. Ackman is known for being a mostly long-only fund manager. The activist investor takes large positions in a handful of companies.  His portfolio includes Air Products &amp; Chemicals, Beam, Burger King, Canadian Pacific, Howard Hughes, General Growth, and Procter &amp; Gamble, his latest 13F filing shows. Ackman recently disclosed massive stakes in pharmaceutical companies Valeant and Allergan. He's partnered with Valeant to pursue a takeover of Allergan. This investment helped his fund rise 7.3% in April, the WSJ noted. Ackman is also notoriously short Herbalife, a multilevel marketing company that sells weight-loss shakes. He rarely shorts companies. Ackman believes Herbalife operates as a "pyramid scheme" and that regulators will shut it down. The FTC and a number of attorneys general are investigating the company. He has yet to break even on that short bet. FREE AppDownload
CNBC, screenshotSince Monday the stock of Jonathan Bush's company, athenahealth is down 15%, but he's still optimistic — "I am absolutely confident that athenahealth is $1,000 stock," he told CNBC. Right now the stock price is hovering around $107, and down over 3.5% in premarket trading. That is in part thanks to hedge fund manager David Einhorn. He presented his short thesis on the stock at this year's Sohn Investment conference, and said that it was at best a $50 stock. At worst he valued it at $14. Einhorn includes athenahealth among a bunch of stocks he talked about in his latest investor letter — "cool kid stocks" that are driven by buzz words and herd mentality, not actual value. He said that he's shorting a basket of them. At Sohn he revealed only one — athenahealth. And his presentation got personal. Not only did Einhorn say that athenahealth was confused about its identity as a business processing company (“Jonathan Bush likes to compare Athena Health to Amazon because they both have websites,” he said) — but Einhorn also showed a bunch of clips of Bush excitedly talking about his product as if it could fly to the moon. "Sometimes I sound like the guy who's convinced the aliens are going to land, but so far we've been right," said Bush on CNBC Thursday morning. athenahealth, he added, is a software service company. That said, Bush admitted that he didn't know how the valuation of his company was done, but he thinks that Wall Street analysts should be the ones to decide it. Not that Einhorn didn't bash them too, because he totally did. FREE AppDownload
@ECBA picture of the beginning of today's Governing Council meeting in Brussels, one of two a year held outside Frankfurt. May 8, 2014.We're experiencing lots of volatility in the euro this morning. Moments ago, European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said the bank would be comfortable acting in June if needed. This dovish tone comes after this morning's monetary policy decision to do nothing. After surging to as high as $1.3993 minutes ago, the euro is now at closer to $1.3899. As expected, the bank kept its benchmark interest rate at unchanged at 0.25% today. It's also keeping its deposit facility rate unchanged at 0.0%. The euro is actually spiking on the news. It's currently up 0.4% to $1.3993. "The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area continue to be on the downside," said Draghi during his 8:30 a.m. ET press conference. "Geopolitical risks, as well as developments in global financial markets and emerging market economies, may have the potential to affect economic conditions negatively. Other downside risks include weaker than expected domestic demand and insufficient implementation of structural reforms in euro area countries, as well as weaker export growth." Here's Draghi on inflation: "According to Eurostat’s flash estimate, euro area annual HICP inflation was 0.7% in April 2014, up from 0.5% in March. As expected, given the timing of Easter, the increase was mainly due to a rise in services prices. On the basis of current information, annual HICP inflation is expected to remain around present low levels over the coming months, before only gradually increasing during 2015 to reach levels closer to 2% towards the end of 2016. New macroeconomic projections by Eurosystem staff will become available in early June. Medium to long-term inflation expectations remain firmly anchored in line with price stability." Here's a look at the euro right now via Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA logo hangs outside a branch of Barclays bank in LondonLONDON (Reuters) - Barclays Plc &lt;BARC.L&gt; said it will cut 19,000 jobs in the next three years and set up a "bad bank" of assets to run down as it tries to get a turnaround plan back on track by cutting costs and lifting profitability. Barclays increased its expected job cuts this year to 14,000, from 12,000 announced in February, with the extra 2,000 jobs going in the investment bank. It said it will cut a further 5,000 jobs in the investment bank by the end of 2016. The bank said 115 billion pounds of risk-weighted assets would go into the bad bank, including 90 billion pounds of investment bank assets and all of its European retail banking operations, amounting to 16 billion pounds of assets. (Reporting by Steve Slater; Editing by Matt Scuffham) FREE AppDownload
The U.S. Department of Labor says initial jobless claims fell 25,000 last week to 319,000. Expectations were for a reading of 325,000, down from a revised 345,000 last week. The four-week moving average was 324,750, an increase of 4,500 from the previous week's revised average. The previous week's average was revised up by 250 from 320,000 to 320,250. Full release here »  Here's what the four-week moving average has looked like recently: DOL FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man stands outside Fannie Mae in WashingtonWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Government-controlled mortgage finance firm Fannie Mae &lt;FNMA.OB&gt; said on Thursday it would send the U.S. Treasury a dividend of $5.7 billion after posting a ninth straight quarterly profit. Once it has made the latest payment in June, it will have returned $126.8 billion to taxpayers in return for the $116.1 billion in taxpayer aid it received after being placed under the government's wing at the height of the financial crisis. The company, the nation's largest source of mortgage funds, earned a net income of $5.3 billion during the first three months of the year. It cited revenue from litigation related to private-label securities and fees they charge lenders to guarantee loans for the performance. (Reporting By Margaret Chadbourn Editing by W Simon) FREE AppDownload
The plunge in Eurozone yields reflects mounting concerns about deflation in the region. The Eurozone’s core CPI inflation rate has dropped from a recent high of 1.7% y/y during July 2012 to 1.0% during April of this year. Inflation is also low in the US with the core PCED up 1.2% y/y during March, down from a recent high of 2.0% two years ago. Interestingly, the expected inflation rate implied by the 10-year TIPs yield has remained remarkably stable around 2.2% since mid-2013. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Vagabonds &amp; Vigilantes. (1) QE tapering: Bonds were sold on the chatter, bought on the news. (2) A range-bound forecast. (3) Bond Vigilantes want to know: “Who are those masked vagabonds buying bonds?" (4) New pension fund rules in Budget Act of 2013. (5) Portfolio rebalancers. (6) Individuals are back. (7) Fed isn’t done buying just yet. (8) Yields plunging in Eurozone. (9) Inflation remains subdued, and global growth is slow. (10) NZIRP for the foreseeable future. (11) Yellen is watching “disappointing” housing activity. (12) Bonds displacing gold as the new safe haven. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload

Matthew Emmons-USA TODAYGood morning! Via Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus, here's a 10-second guide to what traders are chatting about before the bell: Thursday mirrors Weds early, with the S&amp;P futures marked above NDX futures.   We are seeing some life in those Russell Growth stocks that saw a late cover yesterday – with YELP, TWTR, GRPN, FEYE all marked up 1%+ early, but the bears focus is on TSLA, which is off 7% on #s.   Overseas, UK markets are up 40bp as the BoE stays unchanged, no surprise there – while Euro markets are up 40bp+ into the ECB at 7:30 – Street expecting no change, but Draghi may address € strength at the 8:30 presser.  Ukraine stress seems muted this AM, with Russia’s Micex off very small after the jump yesterday -  In Asia, focus was on better than expected trade data out of China, with Shanghai adding 20bp, but the Nikkei regained almost 1% of Wednesday’s smackdown.   Aussie markets added 75bp, led by a rebound in Miners on the China data – but Vietnam was hit for over 6% on bubbling tensions in the South China Sea   The 10YY is up 4bp this AM, and trading on week’s peaks despite the reassuring Dovish tone from Yellen.  The $ is under pressure against the € into ECB, the $/€ is making new 2 ½ year highs this AM.   The weaker $ is a tailwind for commodities, but Copper and Silver are lower, while Gold is up very small.   Despite record Chinese imports of Crude – both WTI and Brent are in the red, as is Nat gas ahead of DOE data today.  We have the ECB decision at 7:30 - Fed's Plosser speaks at 8 – at 8:30, ECB'S Draghi Holds Press Conference and we get US weekly claims, at 9:30 we have a trio of Fed speakers – Tarullo and Evans (Both Doves) Speak in Chicago, while Yellen testifies at the Senate – at 10:30 we have Natural Gas Storage, at 11 is May’s 2nd smallest POMO – we have a 30Y auction at 1, and Fed's Bullard (centrist) speaks at 2. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Rob DiCaterinoSatoru Iwata has said it can't happen again. Speaking at a financial briefing on Wednesday, the day after Nintendo posted a third year of losses, the company's president took responsibility and promised change. "Posting an operating loss for the fourth fiscal year running is unacceptable," he stated. And then he set out his short-term vision on how to turn things around. So what are Nintendo's plans to win back its once huge mainstream user-base? Is there life in the beleaguered Wii U console yet? Here are the five key concepts detailed this week. NintendoThe Mario Kart TV application running on a smartphone. Gamers will be able to view videos and compare rankings with their friends.Nintendo has clearly looked at the content-sharing capabilities of the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One consoles, which both allow gamers to easily upload gameplay videos, and has realized this is a vital modern feature. Hence, the release of Mario Kart 8 this year will be accompanied by a web-based service, currently named "Mario Kart TV" which will allow gamers to upload videos of their best races to the internet, as well as watch hints and tips videos produced by Nintendo itself. The web TV service will be viewable on a range of platforms, including PCs and smartphones. Furthermore, if players sign in with their Nintendo Network IDs, they'll be able to view global rankings as well as quickly access videos and race times submitted by friends. This is basically Nintendo catching up with where "live" console services are going, and it's likely the features will be rolled out to other major titles after Mario Kart 8. NintendoA chart showing the rise in digital sales on Nintendo platforms.Nintendo platforms have featured online stores, or eShops, for several years, but these have been fiddly and complicated to use, and the choice of games limited. In the financial briefing on Wednesday, Iwata directly addressed this aspect, pointing out that digital sales on Nintendo consoles had tripled in the past two years, and that digital distribution was a source of growth for the company. Again, this is Nintendo catching up with its rivals Sony and Microsoft, both of which provide comparatively robust online stores where gamers can purchase a huge range of mainstream titles as well as indie games. And its indie studios that the company is now courting. In March, the eShop got a new section dedicated to indie titles and later that month the company's digital gaming chief, Dan Adelman, gave a talk at GDC, eulogizing the Nintendo Web Framework, an accessible ecosystem for independent developers to create and distribute games for the Wii U. Employing the low-cost games engine Unity, a popular choice with indies, the service provides tools and assistance for smaller studios – much like Sony's PlayStation 4 development programme or Microsoft's ID@Xbox initiative. With the larger western publishers such as Activision and Ubisoft treating Wii U development with extreme caution, bordering on indifference, highlighting the indie-friendliness of the Wii U is a sensible move. Nintendo has been slow in realising the growth of digital platforms like Steam and the smartphone App Stores, but it has surely noted the break-out success of indie titles such as Fez, DayZ and Minecraft – or, of course, the brilliant World of Goo, which premiered on the Wii in 2008. NintendoNintendo is proposing a range of figurines that interact with games via an NFC reader.A big problem with Wii U is that some of its interesting technical properties have been under-used in currently available games. One of these is the near field communication (NFC) capacity of the GamePad, which allows it to read data from a compatible object placed near or on the controller. We've seen this technology used to blisteringly successful effect in Activision's Skylanders series, which allows users to place action figures on a NFC "portal" so that they then appear in the game world on screen. So far, only one major title, Pokemon Rumble U, employs a similar approach on the Wii U. However, on Wednesday, Iwata announced that from this autumn, Nintendo will be releasing NFC-compatible character figurines, which will be able to interact with a range of game titles. Furthermore, the figures will be able to read and store data, so players will be able to "train" and customize their figures. More intriguingly, the company is looking into the cross-platform possibilities of its NFC games, announcing an NFC reader/writer for the Nintendo 3DS. The small circular infrared device will mean that data and gameplay elements can be shared between the 3DS and the Wii, via the collectible figurines. Nintendo has always explored links between its home console and handheld devices, allowing the two to be connected and to exchange data. But the addition of Skylander-esque figures could make this even more appealing to merchandise-hungry fans. The "toys to life" sector is currently dominate by Skylanders and Disney Infinity, both of which are pumping the market with updates and new figures, so its arguable whether there's any growth left in the sector. But if there is, cute Mario, Zelda and Metroid figures are going to be the way to find it. Speaking to Bloomberg on Wednesday, Iwata stated his surprising intention to develop new consoles for emerging markets. These will be entirely unique platforms rather than modified versions of the Wii U or 3DS. “We want to make new things, with new thinking rather than a cheaper version of what we currently have,” Iwata said. “The product and price balance must be made from scratch.” The exact markets haven't been confirmed, but it's likely Nintendo is thinking of countries such as Brazil and India where there's a growing middle-class that is interested in games technology, but is not as experienced with previous consoles and conventions. This is not an entirely new concept for the company – in 2003, it released the iQue Player, a games machine designed for and released exclusively in China. And again, it's about finding new ways to diversify its potential market without making the dramatic leap toward developing games for other platforms such as smartphones. Meanwhile for its domestic market, Nintendo is also looking at using the NFC capabilities of its consoles as a payment system for online shopping. Japanese consumers are wary of giving out credit card information over the net, so instead they'll be able to use pre-paid e-money cards, tapping them on the GamePad to buy stuff. Iwata said this should be possible right after a hardware update in the summer. NintendoA chart "explaining" Nintendo's plans for some sort of health and fitness platform.During a financial briefing in January, Iwata announced that Nintendo would be diversifying into personal health and fitness. The new "Quality of Life" business will involve some sort of combined hardware-software platform, and will not be based around games like Wii Fit, which was a huge hit on the Wii console, or technology like FitBit or Nike's Fuel Band. Instead, Iwata said, the new sector, "will be characterized by a new area of what we like to call 'non-wearable' technology." So what is it? Well Nintendo's diagram doesn't really tell us much apart from the fact that its Quality of Life platform will make health care accessible and fun. Alongside Wii Fit and the Brain Training series of DS games, Nintendo has also dabbled in specialist health hardware in the past, including its Wii Vitality Sensor, which was revealed at E3 in 2009. The device was designed to measure the player's pulse rate by clipping on to a finger, but it was canned because, according to Iwata, "it did not work as expected". But we shouldn't be too cynical. Nintendo sees in its health concept a "blue ocean" of market potential, and let's face it, fitness applications and devices are an exploding sector right now. Almost a decade ago, everyone laughed at the concept of the Wii, which was technically far inferior to its rival consoles and came with a ridiculous wand that you had to waft around to make stuff happen on screen. It was totally ridiculous and utterly out of step with where mainstream games industry thought was going. It sold 100m units. • Nintendo reports annual loss as Wii U stalls • Nintendo launches 'games for health' strategy This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachA birdhouse is seen outside the 'Crazy House', which is completely built upside-down, in the village of Affoldern near the Edersee lake, May 7, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Chinese Exports Surge. China's exports climbed by 0.9%, beating expectations for a 3.0% decline. The growth rate, however, is most likely much high as experts agree that last year's stats were artificially boosted by false trades largely to Hong Kong. "Export growth data was inflated by around 10pp in April last year based on our estimations," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Ting Lu. "So actual export growth could be around 10% in April if we adjust for this distortion, compared to 4-5% of adjusted exported growth in March." Meanwhile, imports increased by 0.8%, which was much stronger than the 2.1% drop expected. China's trade surplus increased to $18.5 billion. Big Bank Woes. Five years after the global financial crisis, we continue to hear about banks scrambling to restructure and reinvigorate their operations. Earlier today, Barclays confirmed speculation that the it would be cutting its headcount. Management expect to let go of 19,000 employees over the next three years in its plan to boost long-term profitability. Tesla Tumbles. Tesla shares are down by around 5% in premarket trading. The electric car maker announced Q1 adjusted earnings per share of $0.12, which was better than the $0.07 expected by analysts. The company delivered 6,457 models S during the period, which was also better than most analysts' forecasts. "We still plan to invest $650-850 million for the year in capital expenditures for increased production capacity, growth in our store, service center and Supercharger footprints, Model X and S development and start of Gigafactory construction," said Musk. "With all these initiatives, we expect to be slightly free cash flow negative in 2014, before considering the equity required for leasing." Greece's Labor Market Nightmare. Greece's unemployment rate fell to 26.7% in February. Unfortunately, we can only say "fell" because January's unemployment rate was revised up to 27.2% from an earlier estimate of 26.7%. The unemployment rate for those 15 to 24 years old is at a horrific 56.8%. Market Update. Markets around the world are in the green. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed up 0.9% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng climbed 0.4%. In Europe, Britain's FTSE, France's CAC 40, and Germany's DAX are all up by around 0.5%. U.S. stock market futures are modestly in the green. Bank Of England Does Nothing. As expected, the BoE kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 0.5% and its asset purchase plan unchanged £375 billion. European Central Bank May Tweak Its Policy. As expected, the ECB kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 0.25%. However, ECB President Mario Draghi said he'd be prepared to take action during its June meeting. This sent the euro on a nosedive. Jobless Claims. Claims fell to 319,000 from from 345,000 a week ago. This was better than the 325,000 expected by economists. FedEx's New Price Plan. The WSJ's Laura Stevens reports that FedEx will charge its ground packages by size and dimensions instead of weight. The Rise Of Alibaba's Jack Ma. The NYTimes' Neil Gough and Alexandra Stevenson have an interesting profile of Jack Ma, the found of Chinese e-commerce behemoth Alibaba. "The first time Jack Ma used the Internet, in 1995, he searched for “beer” and “China” but found no results," they report. "Intrigued, he created a basic web page for a Chinese translation service with a friend. Within hours, he received a handful of emails from around the world requesting information." FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
APToyota's U.S. headquarters in Torrance, CaliforniaToyota booked a record $17.9 billion annual net profit Thursday, driven by a recovery in major markets and the weaker yen, but the world's biggest automaker cautioned that earnings growth would stall this year. Japanese car companies have been big winners over the past year as a sharp drop in the yen inflated their repatriated profits, while sales accelerated in key markets including the US and China. Toyota's buoyant results underscore a recovery not only for the Camry and Corolla maker but also for rival auto giants including Nissan and Honda, which saw its net profit in the past fiscal year soar about 55 percent. Nissan reports its annual financial results next week. On Thursday, Toyota said it had earned a net profit of 1.82 trillion yen ($17.9 billion) over the fiscal year to March, nearly doubling from a year earlier, as sales rose 16.4 percent to 25.69 trillion yen. Toyota's operating profit jumped to 2.29 trillion yen, from 1.32 trillion yen, it said. Company president Akio Toyoda credited cost cuts and stronger sales in Japan and North America for the results as Toyota looks to sell more than 10 million vehicles in 2014, an industry record. But he cautioned that this fiscal year's net profit would come in lower at 1.78 trillion yen, as Toyota eyes "sustainable growth". "We're determined not to target an unreasonable expansion that is beyond our capacity," he told reporters in Tokyo. "Our goal is to achieve sustainable growth. The biggest risk is the kind of arrogance that big companies tend to have...Profit is not an objective, but rather a consequence." Toyota kept the title of world's biggest automaker with 2013 sales of 9.98 million vehicles, outpacing Germany's Volkswagen and General Motors, and said it expects this calendar year to become the first to break the 10 million vehicle sales barrier. Toyota ended GM's decades-long reign as the world's top automaker in 2008 but lost the crown three years later as Japan's quake-tsunami disaster hammered production and disrupted the supply chains of the nation's automakers. Toyota has also been dealt a heavy blow from a series of mass recalls affecting millions of cars that damaged its once-stellar reputation for quality and safety. Japanese automakers' sales in China fell off a cliff in late 2012 and into last year as a Tokyo-Beijing diplomatic row sparked a consumer boycott of Japanese brands in the world's biggest vehicle market. Relations remain tense, but Japanese manufacturers have reported sales are returning to pre-spat levels. While Toyota has ramped up its drive to tap emerging markets, analysts pointed to Japan's April sales tax hike -- which could dent consumer spending -- and unrest in Thailand as possible headwinds. About half of Toyota's latest net profit was due to the weak yen. "The road ahead is not so rosy", cautioned Shigeru Matsumura, analyst with SMBC Friend Securities. "The positive impact of the weak yen is fading, while the sales tax hike is likely to hurt sales in Japan," he told AFP. "Business in emerging economies is also getting tougher as customers demand better quality at low prices. There are some risks on the labour side too." Toyota was hit by a strike at a production complex in southern India with employees returning to work last month after a five-week standoff. That came weeks after Toyota recalled 6.39 million vehicles globally over a string of problems, while it also agreed to pay $1.2 billion to settle US criminal charges that it covered up a sticky pedal blamed for dozens of deaths. Other Japanese automakers have suffered from damaging recalls while General Motors has said its bottom line suffered owing to a $1.3 billion charge for the recall of seven million vehicles worldwide. "Quality control is a really important issue," said Matsumura at SMBC Friend Securities. "Automakers are now using a lot of common parts, which could trigger a huge recall once problems come up." Toyota is among a host of major Japanese firms to announce their first domestic wage hikes in years. The automaker is also boosting its dividend and has announced plans to buy back about $3.5 billion of its shares as calls grow for the firm to unlock a huge cash war chest. Toyota shares rose 0.30 percent to 5,528 yen in Tokyo. Its results were published after markets closed.  Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
SamsungSEOUL (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, the world's biggest handset maker, has replaced the head of its mobile design team amid criticism of the latest Galaxy S smartphone. Chang Dong-hoon offered to resign last week and will be replaced by Lee Min-hyouk, vice president for mobile design, a Samsung spokeswoman said on Thursday. Samsung declined to comment on the reasons for the reshuffle. Lee, 42, became Samsung's youngest senior executive in 2010 for his role in designing the Galaxy series, a roaring success which unseated Apple Inc's iPhone as king of the global smartphone market. Samsung now sells two times more smartphones than Apple, largely thanks to the success of Galaxy range. But the South Korean firm has also been battling patent litigation the world over, with Apple claiming Samsung copied the look and feel of the U.S. firm's mobile products. The Galaxy S5, which debuted globally last month, has received a lukewarm response from consumers due to its lack of eye-popping hardware innovations, while its plastic case design has been panned by some critics for looking cheap and made out of a conveyor belt. The Wall Street Journal said the gold-colored back cover on the S5 looked like a band-aid. Chang, a former professor who studied at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago, will continue to lead Samsung's design centre which overseas its overall design strategy. Lee, who acquired the moniker of "Midas" for his golden touch with the Galaxy series, started out designing cars for Samsung's failed auto joint venture with Renault in the 1990s. (Reporting by Miyoung Kim; Editing by Stephen Coates) FREE AppDownload
AFPHuang JianqiaoThousands of miles from Wall Street, where Alibaba Group has filed for a multi-billion-dollar IPO, Chinese farmers are swapping tractors for luxury cars after making fortunes through the Internet giant. "All of our business is now on the Internet," said Huang Jianqiao, who grew up in rural poverty but now roars to work in a black Jaguar and flies with his wife on holidays to Paris, thanks to an online bag store that he says takes in 30 million yuan ($4.8 million) each year. He is one of thousands of Chinese farmers who have transformed their lives using online retail platforms created by Alibaba. The group, which dominates China's e-commerce market, combines aspects of eBay, Amazon, PayPal and other Western tech darlings, and according to analysts an investor frenzy could drive its value as high as $200 billion when it goes public in the US later this year. A world away from the plush boardrooms of New York, towers of cardboard boxes awaiting delivery to cities and villages across China are strewn across the cracked white tiles of Huang's warehouse in Baigou. One of Alibaba's main assets, the sprawling e-commerce site Taobao -- or "search for treasure" -- enables him to offer his locally made bags to millions of potential Chinese customers. "It's a start-up platform with nearly no entry barriers which suits many of us," Huang said. Baigou, in the northern province of Hebei, is among the biggest of the estimated 20 "Taobao villages" in China -- rural areas in which Taobao stores employ more than 10 percent of the local population and take in revenues of more than 10 million yuan a year. "In the past my economic situation was poor, no house or a car. But now I have the ability, I've taken my wife to visit foreign countries," Huang said, adding: "This is the material life that Taobao has given me." Huang's warehouse rustles with young workers stuffing leather backpacks and purses into plastic bags before throwing them into a pile on the floor where they are scooped up by delivery men. Taobao villages often produce their goods -- ranging from T-shirts to wicker baskets -- in small-scale workshops, meaning farmers who would previously have flocked to Chinese cities in search of better incomes can instead stay put and connect with buyers online. "This place is just 10 minutes away from my home," said Li Dan, a 22-year-old warehouse employee who takes orders and sticks addresses on packages -- but says she has hopes of opening a store of her own, in a typical example of the entrepreneurialism that has driven China's decades-long economic boom and which Alibaba now facilitates. "After a while you can do it yourself. Some people work here but have a side business, buying a laptop and taking care of an online shop in their spare time." The smell of leather hangs over the factory, where dozens of workers sew and stitch an array of unbranded pastel handbags, flower-print purses and Union Jack backpacks, with others adding zips and buckles. "We take inspiration from Chanel," Huang says, grabbing a small red handbag. "We may not have great designers, but we learn from other companies." Alibaba was founded in 1999 by former English teacher Jack Ma, who started with a platform for Chinese manufacturers to connect with foreign buyers but launched Taobao in 2003, just in time to tap into Chinese consumers connecting to the Internet and eager to spend their rising salaries. China's e-commerce market is now vast -- with revenues estimated at $210 billion in 2012 according to consulting firm McKinsey -- and is widely predicted to overtake the United States to become the world's biggest by the end of this year. A short drive across town from Huang's premises, his friend Guo Shaohua has his own lucrative Alibaba bag business, with export destinations including Azerbaijan and Ukraine. "I started using Alibaba in 2011," said Guo, a stocky man who drives a BMW. "It has changed the lives of many young people." The firm lets him ensure clients pay a deposit, he says, reducing the risks of fraud, and he expects to reach annual sales of 100 million yuan within three years. "Now we can stay with our family when doing Internet business, and we earn more than working in other cities," Huang said. "I think this is a big effect that Taobao brings. Apart from material life, I have more ideas and goals, and I dare to have a plan for my life." Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
J. Scott Applewhite/APCapitol Hill in WashingtonThe lawmakers were at an impasse. More than two hours into a meeting of the House Financial Services Committee last month, the members were bickering over two versions of a bill designed to ease a new regulation that affected banks, part of the sweeping 2010 overhaul of financial laws known as the Dodd-Frank Act. The dispute? Whether to give the banks everything they asked for, or whether to give them even more. Rep. Scott Garrett, R-N.J., asked to postpone a final vote so he could contact “stakeholders,” code for the bankers who wanted the change. Then Rep. Jeb Hensarling, R-Texas, the committee’s ambitious chairman, attempted to retake the discussion with what passes for a joke in the oxygen-starved air of the wood-paneled hearing room in the Rayburn House Office Building on Capitol Hill. “Occasionally we have been accused of trying to undermine aspects of Dodd-Frank,” Hensarling said with a chuckle. “I hope we’re guilty of it.” Hensarling was being modest. With a 29-person committee staff, dozens of congressional colleagues and legions of lobbyists lined up to beat back any attempt to impose new discipline on the industry, the 56-year-old from Dallas is well on his way to achieving that goal. Every business sector has its friends in Washington. Financial companies — from the biggest megabanks to small payday lenders — have some of the best. Less than six years after a massive financial crisis drove the U.S. banking system to the edge of collapse, leading to a $700 billion government bailout and a recession that destroyed as much as $34 trillion in wealth, bankers and lawmakers are working in concert to undermine Dodd-Frank, an 849-page law designed to prevent another failure. There are more than 2,000 lobbyists for financial firms and trade groups and many are spreading money around Washington, enlisting like-minded members of Congress to write letters, propose legislation, hold hearings and threaten agency budgets as they pressure regulators to ease up on banks. Regulators say they try to treat input from lawmakers like that from anyone else. However, “there are all these other factors, like the budget, like the fact that they can call you up to testify, and they can make your life pretty miserable,” said the former head of one regulatory agency who asked not to be identified, as did many of those contacted for this story. The campaign is working. While Hensarling’s committee can’t move legislation on its own — the Senate Banking Committee supports Dodd-Frank — the House panel can work its will in other ways. And it has. Almost four years after Dodd-Frank became law, community banks face lower capital standards than originally proposed and are therefore more likely to fail; fewer derivatives traders have to register with regulators and they face lower hurdles in booking trades than they otherwise would have, partly undermining the law’s aim to make this corner of the financial system more transparent; and big banks may soon have a green light to keep investing in potentially risky securities that regulators tried to limit. In the current election cycle, employees and political action committees of financial companies have donated nearly $149 million to congressional candidates, more than any other industry, according to data compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics. That’s more than two-and-a-half times the $57 million donated by the health care sector, the second-most-generous industry. “It’s an exceedingly rich industry with a lot at stake,” said Brad Miller, a member of the House financial committee from 2003 until he left office in 2013 and currently a lawyer with the firm Grais &amp; Ellsworth. With lawmakers under constant pressure to raise money, Miller said, deep-pocketed lobbyists “don’t have to worry about having access to members, because all you have to do is wait for the phone to ring — and you don’t have to wait very long.” The Center for Public Integrity reviewed political finance records; members’ voting records; public statements; and correspondence between Congress and financial regulators to identify the House’s unofficial banking caucus — the financial industry’s go-to lawmakers on the Financial Services Committee. In addition to Hensarling and Garrett, the banking caucus includes Reps. Shelley Moore Capito, R-W.Va.; Sean Duffy, R-Wis.; Jim Himes, D-Conn.; Blaine Luetkemeyer, R-Mo.; Gregory Meeks, D-N.Y.; Ed Royce, R-Calif.; David Scott, D-Ga.; Steve Stivers, R-Ohio; and Ann Wagner, R-Mo. via The Center For Public Integrity  The center of this alliance is Hensarling, a sharp-tongued Texan who learned his skills as a staffer for an iconic Lone Star State politician, former Sen. Phil Gramm.  Hensarling has thick gray-brown hair and eyes that slant down at the corners, giving the impression that he’s on the verge of breaking into a boyish smile. Because of his ties to the House leadership, Hensarling leapfrogged senior members to become committee chair last year when Rep. Spencer Bachus, R-Ala., stepped down because of term limits set by House Republicans. Operating with a strict, top-down style, Hensarling’s staff, with the help of lobbyists, orchestrates hearings, decides which proposals by regulators merit a letter from Congress and who should sign that letter, according to former committee staffers who have worked with him. One subcommittee, for example, has spent months crafting a broad “indictment” of the Dodd-Frank Act. The chair of another drafted a letter to regulators and sent it directly to the American Bankers Association so the industry group could pressure other lawmakers to sign on.Charles Dharapak/AP Several members of the banking caucus have close ties to the financial industry predating their arrival in Congress, making them especially reliable in corraling cosponsors for a bill or signatures for a letter to regulators. Stivers, for instance, was the top lobbyist until 2002 for Bank One, where Jamie Dimon became CEO in 2000. (JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. bought BankOne in 2004 and made Dimon president; he became CEO of the world’s biggest bank a year later.) Luetkemeyer’s family owns a community bank. He has a decades-old relationship with Camden Fine, the top lobbyist for small banks, and is sponsoring a package of rule changes sought by Fine’s organization. “Luetkemeyer is positioned and ready to fight for our industry,” a magazine published by the Independent Community Bankers of America proclaimed in 2011. Capito, who chairs the subcommittee that oversees consumer lending and finance companies, is married to a banker who has worked for Wells Fargo and Citigroup. Himes spent 12 years at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. before joining a nonprofit housing group in 2002. He represents the tony New York suburb of Greenwich, Conn., which is home to some of the world’s largest hedge funds. Others align with single industries. Royce, for example, has developed a near-symbiotic relationship with the credit union industry in the 21 years since he took office. He has raised more than twice as much from credit unions as any other lawmaker, and has sponsored at least 11 bills seeking to relax rules that frustrate the industry. S everal sought to loosen limits on commercial lending by credit unions, a fight he pledged to continue in a Feb. 25 speech before 4,400 credit union employees and advocates at the Credit Union National Association’s annual conference in Washington. He filed the latest version of the bill on March. 13. And several former staffers with ties to Hensarling or the committee are now working on the other side. Just as Hensarling rose to become committee chair, his chief of staff of eight years, Dee Buchanan, decamped to Ogilvy Government Relations where he lobbies for the American Bankers Association, insurers and a private equity firm. Former committee chief of staff Larry Lavender now lobbies at the firm Jones Walker for JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. and payday lending giant Cash America International. The financial services committee is a crucial fundraising tool for both parties because companies with interests in its work generally have money to spend. In the mid-1990s, leaders began packing the panel to help their members bring in campaign cash, and membership swelled from 50 members in 1995 to 71 in 2009. Membership has since been trimmed to 61, but it’s still second in size only to Armed Services, which has 62. Panel members raise more money for their election campaigns, on average, than those on any other House panel. In the two years ended in 2012, members raised an average of $2.6 million, according to data from the Center for Responsive Politics, edging out the powerful Ways and Means Committee. “Members are encouraged by both Democrats and Republicans to spend every waking moment being on the phone asking for money, and the people you ask for money if you're on the Financial Services Committee are lobbyists for financial interests,” said Miller, the former member. Hensarling’s fundraising nearly doubled in 2012, after he became the highest-ranking Republican on the committee. He hosted a fundraising ski trip in February at the St. Regis Deer Valley resort that boasts uniformed “ski valets,” a “private ski beach” and a “split-level infinity pool.” His political action committee, The Jobs, Economy and Budget (JEB) Fund, took in $87,100 that month including $5,000 each from the Consumer Bankers Association, the Capital One Financial PAC, and the National Pawnbrokers Association PAC. Financial interests recently hosted Scott at Johnny’s Half Shell and Himes at Sonoma, both swank Capitol Hill dining spots, according to copies of the invitations posted by the Sunlight Foundation. Meeks enjoys fundraising trips to Las Vegas and throws an annual Super Bowl party for big-ticket donors, according to the New York Post. The Sunlight database includes invitations to fundraisers held on behalf of Garrett, Luetkemeyer, Meeks and Scott at the townhouse of Tim Rupli, a well-known lobbyist whose clients have included payday lenders and prepaid debit card companies. Himes’ spokeswoman, Elizabeth Kerr, said her boss is not advocating for the investment industry. “The congressman doesn’t advocate for or against an industry. He advocates for the right law or regulation,” she said. The financial sector spent $484.7 million in 2013 lobbying Congress, according to CRP. That includes about $3.6 million spent by groups representing consumer interests. Financial industry lobbyists outnumber those for consumer groups by at least 20 to 1, according to a report by The Nation magazine. “I used to have 100 meetings with people from the financial sector to every three or four from consumer groups,” said Bart Chilton, who until last month was a commissioner at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which regulates derivatives. When Congress and trade groups work together, the united front can overwhelm regulators, who depend on Congress for budget approval and can face embarrassing public excoriation if they defy lawmakers, according to a senior staffer for a financial regulator who has spent years working with Congress.   FREE AppDownload
ELSTATIn Greece, the good news is that the unemployment rate is declining. Unfortunately, the unemployment rate is at the nosebleed level of 26.7%. This is according to newly released February data from the Hellenic Statistical Authority. January's unemployment rate was revised up to 27.2% from an earlier estimate of 26.7% "The number of employed decreased by 14,913 persons compared with February 2013 (a 0.4% rate of decrease) and increased by 40,119 persons compared with January 2014 (a 1.1% rate of increase)," reported the agency. The unemployment rate is skewed toward younger Greeks. According to the data, the unemployment rate for those 15 to 24 years old, the unemployment rate is at 56.8%. ELSTAT FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA construction crane is seen along the skyline in OsloOSLO (Reuters) - Norway's energy boom is tailing off years ahead of expectations, exposing an economy unprepared for life after oil and threatening the long-term viability of the world's most generous welfare model. High spending within the sector has pushed up wages and other costs to unsustainable levels, not just for the oil and gas industry but for all sectors, and that is now acting as a drag on further energy investment. Norwegian firms outside oil have struggled to pick up the slack in what has been, for at least a decade, almost a single-track economy. How Norway handles this "curse of oil" - huge wealth that bring unhealthy dependency in its train - may hold lessons across the North Sea in Scotland, which votes on independence from the United Kingdom later this year, relying at least in part on what it sees as its oil revenues. Norway had the foresight to put aside a massive $860 billion rainy-day cash pile, or $170,000 per man, woman and child. It also has huge budget surpluses, a top-notch AAA credit rating and low unemployment, so tangible decline is not imminent. But costs have soared, non-oil exporters are struggling, the government is spending $20 billion more oil money this year than in 2007 and the generous welfare model, which depends on a steady flow of oil tax revenue may not be preparing Norwegians for tougher times. "In Norway, job security seems to be taken for granted, almost like it's a human right to have a job," says Hans Petter Havdal, CEO of car-parts maker Kongsberg Automotive. Kongsberg Automotive has only 5 percent of its workers left in Norway, having moved jobs to places like Mexico, China and the United States, and keeping only high-tech, automated functions at home. It says it is struggling with high labor costs and even problems such as excessive sick leave. "It's a bit discouraging that the sick leave in Norway is twice the level of other plants," Havdal said. "That is to me an indication that something is not as it should be." With per capita GDP around $100,000, the Norwegian lifestyle has become such that the work week averages less than 33 hours, one of the lowest in the world, and while unemployment is low, there is large underemployment, made possible by benefits. In 2012, a new word entered the Norwegian lexicon - to "nave", or live off benefits from welfare agency NAV. "Approximately 600,000 Norwegians ... who should be part of the labor force are outside the labor force, because of welfare, pension issues," says Siv Jensen, the finance minister. Company executives and some government officials say Norway needs to limit wage increases to productivity, limit oil cost growth, cut taxes like neighbors have done and spend less of the oil money. Some say it should even depreciate its currency. The Scottish National Party's argument in favor of independence has centered on the promise that Scotland can replicate the success of Norway's oil economy, creating a sovereign wealth fund for future generations, while public coffers would be only half as dependent on oil and gas. Unfortunately for Scotland, the glory days of British hydrocarbon production are already in the past, with North Sea output down around two thirds since its peak. A net oil and gas exporter until the turn of the century, Britain will import almost half of its hydrocarbon needs this year, mostly from Norway, rising to two-thirds by 2026, the government has said. The fortunes of the oil industry, which accounts for a fifth of Norway's economy, have shifted abruptly as the global oil sector slammed on the brakes. Costs are spiking and capital spending has been so high that energy firms are selling assets to pay dividends. With oil prices seen falling this year and next, appetite for capital expenditure is low. Investments, which tripled over the past decade, are now seen declining in the years ahead, confounding earlier expectations for a steady increase, while oil production remains flat, despite years of heavy spending. Energy companies are cutting some of their most innovative projects, a big worry as the sector has relied on cutting edge innovation to offset its high costs. The government puts the best face on this, but admits times are changing. "The boom is probably over. But we're not looking at a steep decline in investment or production," says oil minister Tord Lien. "The costs are rising too high and too fast. The Norwegian costs have risen a little bit more than elsewhere." Shell has called off a multi-billion dollar gas project that was seen as a step towards platform-free offshore production after costs on the pilot project hit seven times the initial estimate. It would have placed all equipment on the seabed, including compression, and would have powered it from the shore, a huge technological step. Statoil, the state-owned national champion, has slashed spending, eliminating advanced projects like an Arctic rig that would have been able to operate in two-meter thick ice. "Cutting back on capital spending is hurting innovation," says government oil regulator chief Bente Nyland. "When you're cutting back, you're focusing on your production (and) your income ... This will have a long-term impact because you have to make decisions on projects now." Norway is the world's seventh biggest oil exporter, and it supplies a fifth of the European Union's gas, a critical position as tensions with Moscow over Ukraine raise concerns about Russian supplies. It also boasts the world's highest GDP per hour worked, according to the OECD, but labor productivity has declined since 2007, and since 2000 its unit labor cost has risen around six times faster than in Germany. Handelsbanken economist Knut Anton Mork said Norway must act if it is to avoid decline. "The oil boom has ended," Mork said. "Norway needs to rebalance to a more sustainable level, which can be done either through a nominal depreciation or through an internal devaluation of wages. "Absent necessary adjustments, Norway after oil may face a structural crisis similar to that in Finland after Nokia." Industry-leading mobile handset maker used to account for nearly a fifth of Finland's exports and a quarter of its corporation tax before its rapid decline as rivals cornered the market in smartphones. Neighbor Sweden, meanwhile, cut sickness and unemployment benefits and lowered income, wealth and corporate taxes. Its tax burden has fallen by four percentage points of gross domestic product, now making it lower than France. But such wage adjustment in Norway is unlikely in the near term, and unions dispute that the country has a competitiveness problem. Industrial workers nearly went on strike in April until last-minute concessions. "We haven't been in a situation since the second world war that we had any cutbacks on rights we have negotiated," said Stein-Ragnar Noreng, CEO for consultancy KPMG's Norwegian unit. "There is no sign of willingness from unions or the government to go into any kind of discussion. This could be very dangerous because investments will go down." Knut Sunde, director of employer interest group Area Trade and Industrial Policy, also sees little chance of much change: "It's a high-cost country and will always be, so there's no dreaming about ever coming back to the good old days when Sweden was expensive and Norway was cheap. We'll never go back." (Additional reporting by Henrik Stolen in Oslo, Sakari Suoninen in Helsinki and Karolin Schaps in London; Editing by Will Waterman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonChina's April trade stats were much stronger than expected. Exports climbed by 0.9%, beating expectations for a 3.0% decline. Imports increased by 0.8%, which was much stronger than the 2.1% drop expected. The trade surplus increased to $18.5 billion. Keep in mind that China's trade figures have been distorted by inflated numbers, particularly to Hong Kong. "Export growth data was inflated by around 10pp in April last year based on our estimations," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Ting Lu. "So actual export growth could be around 10% in April if we adjust for this distortion, compared to 4-5% of adjusted exported growth in March." The bottom line is that China is probably in better shape than people think. And this is largely thanks to the strength of its trading partner. "The better than expected export growth is supported by better export demand conditions in the developed market. In particular, export growth to the US and EU jumped to 12.0% and 15.1% yoy in April from 1.2% and 8.8% yoy, respectively in March," said Lu. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSun Hung Kai Properties Executive Director Thomas Chan Kui-yuen arrives at High Court in Hong KongHONG KONG (Reuters) - Thomas and Raymond Kwok, the billionaire co-chairmen of Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd, Asia's largest developer, went on trial on Thursday in Hong Kong's biggest corruption case since the city's anti-graft agency was formed nearly 40 years ago. The case involves a series of payments and loans totaling more than HK$35 million ($4.5 million) allegedly paid to Rafael Hui, who had headed Hong Kong's civil service from 2005 to 2007. The three men have pleaded not guilty to all charges, including conspiracy to offer an advantage to a public servant. The case has thrown a spotlight on the close relationship between the city's powerful developers and government in the former British colony, which returned to Chinese rule in 1997 and has a separate legal system from the mainland. The Kwok brothers, who run the world's second-largest property company with a market capitalization of $34 billion, have been charged with a total of seven offences, including claims related to alleged payments offered to Hui. Thomas Chan, a board member in charge of land purchases at Sun Hung Kai Properties, and Francis Kwan, a former Hong Kong Stock Exchange official, have also been charged in the case. They have also pleaded not guilty. All five defendants appeared in court, where about 50 photographers and cameramen jostled to get shots of the men at the entrance. Thomas Kwok, wearing a black suit and red tie, thanked reporters as he entered the court looking relaxed. HIGH-FLYING LEGAL TEAM The prosecution and defendants have hired high-profile lawyers for the trial, with local media reporting the Kwok brothers could spend more than HK$100 million in legal fees, which would mark the most ever paid in the city. Clare Montgomery, a specialist in criminal and fraud law, is representing Thomas Kwok. She led the prosecution team in the extradition case to Sweden of Julian Assange, founder of whistleblower website WikiLeaks. John Kelsey-Fry, a lawyer who represented former News Corp. executive Rebekah Brooks in a phone-hacking scandal, is defending Raymond Kwok. Hong Kong's Court of First Instance will summon more than 80 witnesses during the trial, which is scheduled to run for 70 days, according to local media reports. The Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC) arrested the tycoons in March 2012 in the agency's biggest investigation since it was set up in 1974 to root out widespread corruption in the then-British colonial government and police. Sun Hung Kai Properties, which has a market value of $34 billion, has said the legal battle will not affect its business and operations. Shares in the company were down 0.6 percent on Thursday morning, lagging a 0.6 percent gain for the broader market. The stock has fallen 3.5 percent so far this year. Analysts have said the company has already taken steps to reassure investors, including the appointment of additional non-executive directors and naming Adam Kwok and Edward Kwok, the sons of Thomas and Raymond Kwok, as alternative directors. Sun Hung Kai is the city's largest real estate developer, followed by Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd, which is controlled by Asia's richest man Li Ka-shing. ($1 = 7.7520 Hong Kong Dollars) (Additional reporting by Venus Wu and Nikki Sun; Editing by Anne Marie Roantree and Simon Cameron-Moore) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Minshen LinPolice use a water cannon to disperse demonstrators protesting the construction of a fourth nuclear plant, in front of Taipei Railway station in Taipei April 28, 2014. Taiwan’s anti-nuclear activists have been protesting a nuclear facility under construction an hour outside Taipei since the 2011 meltdown at Japan’s Fukushima Daiichi plant. Like Japan, Taiwan is in the seismically active Pacific region known as the Ring of Fire, and activists fear a similar catastrophe in their backyard. The protests came to a head in late April, when thousands of demonstrators took over a main thoroughfare in Taipei and a 73-year-old activist (and former opposition party leader) waged a nine-day hunger strike. On April 27, President Ma Ying-jeou announced that work on the plant, the island’s fourth, would be halted until a nationwide referendum could be held regarding its completion. Taiwan isn’t the only country dealing with post-Fukushima anti-nuclear sentiment. Germany, which once produced 30 percent of its energy at nuclear facilities, closed eight nuclear plants in 2011 and plans to phase out the remaining nine by 2022. French President Francois Hollande has also pledged to reduce his country’s dependence on nuclear energy from some 77 percent to 50 percent. But Taiwan’s ruling Kuomintang Party has been pushing the fourth reactor ahead since the 1980s over the protests of anti-nuclear activists, intellectuals, and the opposition Democratic Progressive Party. In 2000, the Kuomintang even launched an effort to recall DPP President Chen Shui-bian after he promised that his government would cease work on it. (The Kuomintang held a legislative majority at the time.) If the referendum succeeds, Taiwan—which gets 18 percent of its electricity from nuclear sources—seems likely to follow Germany’s path to a nuclear-free future. The island’s three existing facilities are already scheduled to be decommissioned between 2018 and 2025. The abandonment of the project would surely cheer the activists, but it’s likely to have a negative effect on the economy. As Credit Suisse economist Christiaan Tuntono points out in a recent note entitled “Denuclearization in Taiwan: To Be or Not To Be?”, that would negatively effect the state’s trade balance, currency, debt, inflation, and economic growth. The problems would start at the troubled wholly government-owned Taiwan Power Company, which has accumulated losses of TWD 207 billion ($7 billion). The Taiwanese government enforces strict electricity price controls, but the utility has to contend with price variations in the imported nuclear fuel, coal, liquefied natural gas, and oil that it relies on to produce 98 percent of its power. Although Taiwan has slashed electricity subsidies over the last two years, Tuntono says, it still loses money on every kilowatt-hour of electricity it produces. TPC has already spent TWD 330 billion ($11 billion) building the fourth nuclear plant – one of the reactors is already finished – and it would have to write off the asset completely if the project were cancelled. Tuntono calculates that the government could be forced to inject up to TWD 540 billion ($18 billion), or 3.7 percent of GDP, simply to keep the utility solvent. The government would likely have to float bonds to cover the expenditure, which is equivalent to one-fifth of annual government spending. That would increase the general government debt 3.7 percentage points to 46.1 percent of GDP, bringing the total public debt at all levels of government very close to the statutory limit of 50 percent. The fiscal bind would tighten further come 2018, when the first of the three existing nuclear reactors is scheduled to go dark. Producing energy from fossil fuels is nearly three times more expensive than using nuclear power, leaving Taiwan Power and the Taiwanese government with two choices: Absorb the increased costs or pass them on to consumers. In the latter scenario, electricity prices would rise 10 to 15 percent each time a plant went offline – in 2018, 2021 and 2025, Credit Suisse Taiwan equity strategists Chung Hsu and Michelle Chou wrote in a late April research note. Tuntono estimates these higher electricity prices would ultimately boost consumer price inflation, which now stands at 1.61 percent, by 0.7 percentage points. Higher power prices would also hurt corporate earnings. Steel manufacturers would be among the hardest-hit, with an earnings hit of as much as 5 percent for each 10 percent increase in electricity prices. Finally, buying fossil fuels to cover Taiwan’s energy needs would increase total imports by $4.8 billion, or 27 percent, thereby slashing the island’s $57 billion current account surplus by 8.3 percent. That, in turn, would put pressure on the Taiwanese dollar. A temporary halt in construction of the plant is a prudent move for a government trying to “fend off immediate political pressure while keeping the nuclear power option open for Taiwan,” say Hsu and Chou. But the current Kuomintang government is walking a tightrope. Ma’s approval rating is a dismal 13 percent, and the anti-nuclear demonstrations have attracted large crowds. On the other hand, following in Germany’s denuclearized footsteps would have meaningful economic consequences that the general public may not entirely understand. An April 29 opinion poll showed that 58.7 percent of Taiwanese surveyed favored abandoning the plant completely, while another 27.2 percent said they wanted to halt it temporarily. At the same time, however, 50.3 percent of respondents said they weren’t prepared to deal with the electricity price hikes scrapping the plant would entail. But they can’t have it both ways. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCEO, Chairman, and Co-founder of Chesapeake Energy Corporation McClendon walks through the French Quarter in New Orleans, Louisiana(Reuters) - Chesapeake Energy Corp said on Wednesday the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has ended its probe against the company and its former chief executive Aubrey McClendon. The company said in a regulatory filing that the SEC's Fort Worth regional office advised the company last month that it had concluded its investigation and did not intend to recommend enforcement action. (http://r.reuters.com/guk29v) The SEC began its investigation in May 2012. McClendon, who co-founded Chesapeake in 1989, left the company in April last year after clashing over spending with the company's board and a series of Reuters investigations led to civil and criminal probes on the company. The company's shares touched their highest since October 2011 after it posted better-than-expected quarterly profit and hiked its production forecast earlier on Wednesday. Since leaving Chesapeake, McClendon has raised nearly $4 billion in cash and financing to invest in North American shale formations. He has also filed to raise up to $2 billion to buy and drill oil and gas properties within the United States through a partnership called American Energy Capital Partners LP. (Reporting by Anannya Pramanick in Bangalore; Editing by Eric Walsh) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsMarkets are up in Europe. Britain's FTSE is up 0.4%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.4%. Germany's DAX is up 0.5%. Spain's IBEX is up 0.7%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.9%. China reported that exports climbed 0.9% in April, which was much stronger than the 3% drop expected by economists. Later this morning, we will get monetary policy decisions from the Bank of England and the European Central Bank. Economists expect no change in the ultra loos monetary policies. In the U.S., we'll get a tally of initial weekly jobless claims. Economists estimate claims fell to 325,000 from 344,000 a week ago. "Initial jobless claims have trended higher in the past couple weeks," noted Nomura economists. "We need to observe claims in coming weeks to determine if this trend continues and if there has been any deterioration in labor market performance." U.S. futures are in the green with Dow futures up 18 points. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersEmployees stand next to a glass door with logos of Alibaba during a media tour organised by government officials at the company's headquarters on the outskirts of Hangzhou SAN FRANCISCO/BEIJING (Reuters) - Part-way through Alibaba Group Holding Ltd's long-awaited IPO prospectus was a subtle, but striking, warning: investors should know that lead founder and executive chairman Jack Ma might work against the company's best interests. The acknowledgment, on page 42 of a 300-plus-page filing, highlighted longstanding questions about the Chinese e-commerce giant's complex corporate structure and potential conflicts of interests surrounding Ma, who started Alibaba in his one-room apartment in 1999 and has since branched out into markets as diverse as e-payments and financial investment. To be sure, such warnings of potential conflicts were included in the prospectuses of many founder-controlled tech companies, including Facebook Inc and LinkedIn Corp. But Alibaba's warning stands out given Ma's numerous investments in third-party firms that partner with his company. One hot-button issue is Ma's control of Alipay, the PayPal-like affiliate established by Alibaba in 2004, which continues to provide the lions' share of payment services for the company's retail marketplaces. Four years ago, Alibaba spun out Alipay to a group including Ma, who holds a 46 percent stake in Alipay through another company, Zhejiang Alibaba E-Commerce Co. A row ensued: Alibaba investors including Yahoo Inc and SoftBank Corp objected to the spinoff, which Ma argued was needed to comply with Chinese central bank regulations governing foreign ownership of financial firms. In 2010, China's central bank issued regulations governing online payment companies. "These regulations stipulated that the scope of business, the qualifications of any foreign investor and any foreign ownership percentage would be subject to future additional regulations," Alibaba said in its IPO filing. Alibaba, Yahoo and SoftBank settled the matter in 2011, but not before David Einhorn, the Greenlight Capital hedge fund manager, sold all of his Yahoo shares in frustration at what he deemed mutual "finger-pointing" between the companies. Alibaba reiterated on Tuesday its longstanding position that the 2010 spinoff was intended to conform with the central bank regulations. But it also admitted that new rules on foreign-owned payments institutions hadn't appeared. "At the time when the licenses were first issued, no such additional regulations governing foreign-owned payment companies had been put in place." The company declined to comment beyond the prospectus on the matter of Ma's potential conflict or his investments. It also declined to comment on media reports that it is in talks to buy back a stake in the payments firm, or whether Ma would recuse himself from any Alipay talks. Beyond Alipay, analysts and attorneys say they are concerned about Ma and Alibaba's related-party transactions and "variable interest entities" -- firms associated with Alibaba in which Ma has a holding. In the prospectus, Alibaba says structures such as "variable interest entities" are to its benefit. The investments give Alibaba flexibility in the face of Chinese regulation. Ma can assume legal ownership of a company and agree to transfer "all economic benefits" to Alibaba when legally permitted, the prospectus said. According to Tuesday's prospectus, Ma has a 40 percent stake in "several entities" with ties to Yunfeng Capital, an investment firm that has operated alongside Alibaba. "You've got this complex web of variable interest entities, limited shareholder voting rights," said Jim Angel, associate professor of finance at Georgetown University. "There's definitely a lot of questions over this offering, but there's no doubt that Alibaba is a major e-commerce play." The deals can be complex. In April, Alibaba agreed to loan 6.5 billion yuan (about $1 billion) to co-founder Simon Xie. Through another company formed with Ma, Xie would then purchase a minority stake in Wasu Media Holding Co, an internet TV firm. Alibaba at the time announced it had reached a cooperation deal with Wasu Digital TV Media Group, the listed company's parent. It did not mention the loans or investment. Alibaba also holds a stake in a separate TV and film company, and M&amp;A lawyers have said the purchase could have been designed to circumvent anti-competition rules. "This arrangement certainly raises serious questions about corporate governance," a Beijing-based attorney at a multinational law firm said when the investment was made. The person declined to be identified because of the sensitivity of the matter. "Alibaba's tendency to do these kinds of deals makes the company appear to be cavalier about these kinds of conflicts. Here you have a guy in senior management taking 6 billion yuan out of his company to make an investment in another firm that he controls." Ma's investments do not ring alarm bells for everyone. "This is one of those risk factors they have to tell you about, but you don't have to worry about it as long as Jack Maretains a meaningful stake in Alibaba," said Lise Buyer, an IPO adviser who guided Google Inc's 2004 offering. "This seems to me that something investors should be aware of, but not something they should be particularly nervous about at this stage in the company's life," Buyer said. "Call me in a year." But Buyer raised another issue -- the fact that Alibaba had just four board members. It intends to expand that to nine, but investors should wait to see who gets appointed before its listing, she said. "It would be nice to see that before putting your money down," she said. (Additional reporting by Sarah McBride and Deepa Seetharaman in San Francisco, Editing by Edwin Chan and Peter Henderson) "This arrangement certainly raises serious questions about corporate governance," a Beijing-based attorney at a multinational law firm said when the investment was made. The person declined to be identified because of the sensitivity of the matter. "Alibaba's tendency to do these kinds of deals makes the company appear to be cavalier about these kinds of conflicts. Here you have a guy in senior management taking 6 billion yuan out of his company to make an investment in another firm that he controls." Ma's investments do not ring alarm bells for everyone. "This is one of those risk factors they have to tell you about, but you don't have to worry about it as long as Jack Ma retains a meaningful stake in Alibaba," said Lise Buyer, an IPO adviser who guided Google Inc's 2004 offering. "This seems to me that something investors should be aware of, but not something they should be particularly nervous about at this stage in the company's life," Buyer said. "Call me in a year." But Buyer raised another issue -- the fact that Alibaba had just four board members. It intends to expand that to nine, but investors should wait to see who gets appointed before its listing, she said. "It would be nice to see that before putting your money down," she said. (Additional reporting by Sarah McBride and Deepa Seetharaman in San Francisco, Editing by Edwin Chan and Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson Bitcoin themed stickers stand attached to glass doors during the Inside Bitcoins: The Future of Virtual Currency Conference in New York April 8, 2014. SHANGHAI (Reuters) - China Guangfa Bank and Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Co Ltd &lt;600000.SS&gt; said they had banned their customers from using bank accounts for trading bitcoins, the latest blow to the virtual currency trading business in China. The announcements, posted on the banks' websites on Wednesday, said institutional and retail customers will not be allowed to use their accounts to purchase or sell bitcoins as well as other virtual currencies. If such practices were detected, the accounts would be suspended or closed down. This comes after bank accounts of China's two largest bitcoin exchanges at certain domestic banks were shut down in mid-April. Du Jun, co-founder and vice president at one of China's leading digital currency exchanges Huobi.com, said the move dealt a severe blow to the industry. "We online exchanges as well as the entire industry are facing a serious challenge. Without an incoming cash flow, it's hard to operate an exchange," he told Reuters. China's central bank, the People's bank of China (PBOC), said in a report last week that bitcoins are essentially a vehicle for speculation and are highly unstable. It also warned that trading of bitcoins on online exchanges may be risky given the lack of regulation. Unlike conventional money, bitcoin and other crypto-currencies are generated by computers and are not backed by any central bank or government, or by physical assets. In December the PBOC banned financial institutions from trading in bitcoin, saying the government would act to prevent money laundering risks arising from use of the digital currency. (Reporting By Shanghai Newsroom; Editing by Kazunori Takada and Michael Urquhart) FREE AppDownload
