REUTERS/Joshua RobertsU.S. Federal Reserve Vice Chair Janet Yellen stands after testifying during a confirmation hearing on her nomination to be the next chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve before the Senate Banking Committee in Washington November 14, 2013. SocGen economist Michala Marcussen is out with her latest look at the top questions from clients. The #1 question? What next for the Fed. WILL THE FED ACCELERATE TAPERING? YES. Expectations of Fed tapering shifted to “slow” after Friday's employment report showed a mere 74K new jobs created in December. At the same time, the unemployment rate hit its lowest level since October 2008 at 6.7%. As highlighted by US data guru, Brian Jones, part of the explanation for the weak payrolls resides with weather related factors. It's not just the grips of a polar vortex that could see new surprises delivered by the employment reports. In the latest edition of US Themes, Chief US economist, Aneta Markowska discusses Unemployment and forward guidance, with a particular focus on the role of demographics and the participation rate. Bottom-line, our central scenario remains that of a sustainable recovery for the US economy driving an acceleration of tapering (relative to the $10bn per FOMC implied by President Bernanke) during the spring and with the first rate hike in summer 2015. This is just SocGen's view, but in the absence of further evidence of a downturn, we don't think it's done much to change the overall consensus view that the economy is accelerating and that the Fed will keep winding down QE. FREE AppDownload
Think the U.S. market has been on a nice run? Try Egypt. Here's a one-year chart of the CASE-30 index, via Bloomberg. The index is up a breathtaking 55% just since last summer. Bloomberg Coincidentally or not (probably not, actually), the bottom almost perfectly coincides with the Egyptian army toppling Morsi last summer, proving once again that moments of extreme chaos can make for tremendous buying opportunities. It's a good time to be checking in on the Egyptian market, since we're basically exactly three years since Mubarak's regime was toppled, and the Egyptian market crashed. Lo and behold, with the recent rally, stocks are finally within range of where they were when Mubarak was in power. Bloomberg Meanwhile, if you're looking for a fun comparison, here's a look at the Egyptian market vs. the Greek market (another country that's been through a lot the last few years). Bloomberg Despite very different circumstances and forces, the similar trajectories are kind of uncanny. For what it's worth, we've been writing about the similarities between Greek and Egyptian financial markets since early 2012 and it's pleasing to see that the connection has hung together. What does it mean? Well it could just be totally coincidental. But it could also mean that attempts to ascribe market movements to a story on the ground risks losing the big picture. There's a whole world of capital flows, with investment money moving in and out of borders and national markets all the time. As both countries have been in deep turmoil, it's not surprising that attitudes toward both markets have ebbed and flowed at the same time, as the global appetite for risk undulates. FREE AppDownload
Ryan Persie/Getty ImagesSandboarding in AustraliaThe weekend is over and markets are going nowhere, despite Friday's shockingly bad jobs data. U.S. futures are totally flat. Gold is doing nothing. Bitcoin prices barely moved this weekend, lingering at about $940 on Mt. Gox. The Nikkei is closed. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 is off -.26%.  It's a decent week for econ data. We get our first retails sales figures of 2014 Tuesday, and also new housing data Thursday and Friday.  The main news of the week is bank earnings. Click here for a full preview » FREE AppDownload
From what I've gathered, a growing number of Silicon Valley workers, from Google and other companies, are finding themselves in San Francisco, some 40 miles from San Jose, Palo Alto, Sunnyvale, Cupertino, Mountain View and the other towns that make up the high-tech hub.   Workers are moving to the City By The Bay presumably because they're drawn to the city's attractiveness, amenities and dynamism, which the Valley apparently lacks (never been there, so this is totally impressionistic).In response to this shift, Google and others are orchestrating private buses to transport workers from the City to the Valley, and paying the City of San Francisco good money to use its bus stops.  This has prompted protests from SF residents decrying the impact of the Valley workers on affordable housing and in altering the character of the city. From my vantage point some 2,000 miles away, the protests seem misguided.  San Francisco hasn't been affordable for decades, and using this episode as a crusade for affordable housing in the city is quixotic at best.  According to Zillow, the median home price in San Francisco in November 2013 was $881,000, and the median rent value was $3,400.  Hardly affordable.  Interestingly, the same figures for Santa Clara County were $745,000 and $2,300, respectively. It seems to me that the whole issue is really about the supply of rental housing in the Bay Area.  According to the 2012 American Community Survey, Santa Clara County, home of most of the Silicon Valley communities, has about 636,000 housing units.  Of those, 53 percent are single-family detached homes, and 47 percent are all other types (single-family attached and all multiple unit structures).  In addition, 58 percent of all units are owner-occupied and 42 percent are renter-occupied.  In San Francisco, things are a little different.  With 377,000 total housing units, only 19 percent are single-family detached homes, and 81 percent are all other types.  Moreover, 63 percent are renter-occupied and on 37 percent are owner-occupied. It appears to me that Silicon Valley workers are making a pragmatic decision to find available rental housing where it exists in an extremely high priced market.  It also appears Google and others are seeking to find a solution to this problem.  But ultimately, it looks like the loser in this battle might be the Silicon Valley communities.What are Valley communities doing to address housing supply concerns?  Transit concerns?  How long will Google be willing to pay the City of San Francisco for using its bus stops?  At some point, Silicon Valley companies will be forced to deal with a jobs/housing mismatch never seen before, and decide if they want to be near where the workers are going, or want the workers near where they are.  Either way, this could be an existential threat for the Valley communities as they currently are, as a relatively sprawled suburban landscape.  They could add housing units and maintain their stature; they could stay the same and quite possibly begin a downward spiral very quickly.  I mean, without the high-tech industries, is Silicon Valley really all that different from, say, Stockton or Modesto, two cities that were devastated by the housing boom and crash?  I really don't know, but I'm asking the question. This article originally appeared at The Corner Side Yard.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Heidi Moore asked a good question on Twitter yesterday about the most prominent myths in economics. I’ve compiled a substantial number of “myth busting” articles over the last 5 years so I thought it might be worth touching on a handful of the more destructive ones in some detail. A lot of this will be very familiar to regulars, but should provide a nice summary regardless.  So here we go: 1) The government “prints money”.   The government really doesn’t “print money” in any meaningful sense.  Most of the money in our monetary system exists because banks created it through the loan creation process.  The only money the government really creates is due to the process of notes and coin creation.  These forms of money, however, exist to facilitate the use of bank accounts.  That is, they’re not issued directly to consumers, but rather are distributed through the banking system as bank customers need these forms of money.  The entire concept of the government “printing money” is generally a misportrayal  by the mainstream media. See the following pieces for more detail: http://pragcap.com/stop-with-the-money-printing-madness http://pragcap.com/where-does-cash-come-from 2)  Banks “lend reserves”.   This myth derives from the concept of the money multiplier, which we all learn in any basic econ course.  It implies that banks who have $100 in reserves will then “multiply” this money 10X or whatever.  This was a big cause of the many hyperinflation predictions back in 2009 after QE started and reserve balances at banks exploded due to the Fed’s balance sheet expansion.  But banks don’t make lending decisions based on the quantity of reserves they hold.  Banks lend to creditworthy customers who have demand for loans.  If there’s no demand for loans it really doesn’t matter whether the bank wants to make loans.  Not that it could “lend out” its reserve anyhow.  Reserves are held in the interbank system.  The only place reserves go is to other banks.  In other words, reserves don’t leave the banking system so the entire concept of the money multiplier and banks “lending reserves” is misleading. See the following for more detail on the basics of banking: http://brown-blog-5.blogspot.com/ Also see this Fed paper on this topic: http://www.federalreserve.gov/pubs/feds/2010/201041/201041pap.pdf 3)  The US government is running out of money and must pay back the national debt. There seems to be this strange belief that a nation with a printing press whose debt is denominated in the currency it can print, can become insolvent.  There are many people who complain about the government “printing money” while also worrying about government solvency.  It’s a very strange contradiction.  Of course, the US government could theoretically print up as much money as it wanted.  As I described in myth number 1, that’s not technically how the system is presently designed (because banks create most of the money), but that doesn’t mean the government is at risk of “running out of money”.   As I’ve described before, the US government is a contingent currency issuer and could always create the money needed to fund its own operations.  Now, that doesn’t mean that this won’t contribute to high inflation or currency debasement, but solvency (not having access to money) is not the same thing as inflation (issuing too much money). See the following piece for more detail: http://pragcap.com/why-the-usa-isnt-going-bankrupt http://pragcap.com/inflation-is-not-necessarily-a-different-form-of-default 4)  The national debt is a burden that will ruin our children’s futures.   The national debt is often portrayed as something that must be “paid back”.  As if we are all born with a bill attached to our feet that we have to pay back to the government over the course of our lives.  Of course, that’s not true at all.  In fact, the national debt has been expanding since the dawn of the USA and has grown as the needs of US citizens have expanded over time.  There’s really no such thing as “paying back” the national debt unless you think the government should be entirely eliminated (which I think most of us would agree is a pretty unrealistic view of the world). This doesn’t mean the national debt is all good.  The US government could very well spend money inefficiently or misallocate resources in a way that could lead to high inflation and result in lower living standards.  But the government doesn’t necessarily reduce our children’s living standards by issuing debt.  In fact, the national debt is also a big chunk of the private sector’s savings so these assets are, in a big way, a private sector benefit.  The government’s spending policies could reduce future living standards, but we have to be careful about how broadly we paint with this brush.  All government spending isn’t necessarily bad just like all private sector spending isn’t necessarily good. See the following pieces for more: http://pragcap.com/the-us-government-is-not-16-trillion-in-the-hole http://pragcap.com/is-social-security-a-ponzi-scheme 5)  QE is inflationary “money printing” and/or “debt monetization”.   Quantitative Easing (QE) is a form of monetary policy that involves the Fed expanding its balance sheet in order to alter the composition of the private sector’s balance sheet.  This means the Fed is creating new money and buying private sector assets like MBS or T-bonds.  When the Fed buys these assets it is technically “printing” new money, but it is also effectively “unprinting” the T-bond or MBS from the private sector.  When people call QE “money printing” they imply that there is magically more money in the private sector which will chase more goods which will lead to higher inflation.  But since QE doesn’t change the private sector’s net worth (because it’s a simple swap) the operation is actually a lot more like changing a savings account into a checking account.  This isn’t “money printing” in the sense that some imply. See the following pieces for more detail: http://pragcap.com/understanding-quantitative-easing http://pragcap.com/why-didnt-qe-cause-high-inflation 6)  Hyperinflation is caused by “money printing”.   Hyperinflation has been a big concern in recent years following QE and the sizable budget deficits in the USA.  Many have tended to compare the USA to countries like Weimar or Zimbabwe to express their concerns.  But if one actually studies historical hyperinflations you find that the causes of hyperinflations tend to be very specific events.  Generally: The hyperinflation in the USA never came because none of these things actually happened.  Comparing the USA to Zimbabwe or Weimar was always an apples to oranges comparison. See the following pieces for more detail: http://pragcap.com/understanding-hyperinflation http://pragcap.com/inflation-is-not-necessarily-a-different-form-of-default 7)  Government spending drives up interest rates and bond vigilantes control interest rates.   Many economists believe that government spending “crowds out” private investment by forcing the private sector to compete for bonds in the mythical “loanable funds market”.   The last 5 years blew huge holes in this concept.  As the US government’s spending and deficits rose interest rates continue to drop like a rock.  Clearly, government spending doesn’t necessarily drive up interest rates.  And in fact, the Fed could theoretically control the entire yield curve of US government debt if it merely targeted a rate.  All it would have to do is declare a rate and challenge any bond trader to compete at higher rates with the Fed’s bottomless barrel of reserves.  Obviously, the Fed would win in setting the price because it is the reserve monopolist.  So, the government could actually spend gazillions of dollars and set its rates at 0% permanently (which might cause high inflation, but you get the message). See the following pieces for more detail: http://pragcap.com/i-want-to-come-back-as-the-federal-reserve-you-can-intimidate-everybody http://pragcap.com/the-mainstream-economists-finally-realize-bond-vigilantes-are-mythical http://pragcap.com/american-bond-vigilantes-asleep-at-the-wheel 8)  The Fed was created by a secret cabal of bankers to wreck the US economy. The Fed is a very confusing and sophisticated entity.  The Fed catches a lot of flak because it doesn’t always execute monetary policy effectively.  But monetary policy is not the reason why the Fed was created.  The Fed was created to help stabilize the US payments system and provide a clearinghouse where banks could meet to help settle interbank payments.  This is the Fed’s primary purpose and it was modeled after the NY Clearinghouse.  Unfortunately, the NY Clearinghouse didn’t have the reach or stability to help support the entire US banking system and after the panic of 1907 the Fed was created to expand a system of payment clearing to the national banking system and help provide liquidity and support on a daily basis.  So yes, the Fed exists to support banks.  And yes, the Fed often makes mistakes executing policies.  But its design and structure is actually quite logical and its creation is not nearly as conspiratorial or malicious as many make it out to be. See the following pieces for more detail: http://pragcap.com/feds-dual-mandate-bull-sht http://pragcap.com/who-owns-the-federal-reserve 9)  Fallacy of composition.   The biggest mistake in modern macroeconomics is probably the fallacy of composition.  This is taking a concept that applies to an individual and applying it to everyone.  For instance, if you save more then someone else had to dissave more.   We aren’t all better off if we all save more.  In order for us to save more, in the aggregate, we must spend (or invest) more.  As a whole, we tend not to think in a macro sense.  We tend to think in a very narrow micro sense and often make mistakes by extrapolating personal experiences out to the aggregate economy.  This is often a fallacious way to view the macroeconomy and leads to many misunderstandings.  We need to think in a more macro way to understand the financial system. 10)  Economics is a science.   Economics is often thought of as a science when the reality is that most of economics is just politics masquerading as operational facts.  Keynesians will tell you that the government needs to spend more to generate better outcomes.  Monetarists will tell you the Fed needs to execute a more independent and laissez-fairre policy approach through its various policies.  Austrians will tell you that the government is bad and needs to be eliminated or reduced.   All of these “schools” derive many of their understandings by constructing a political perspective and then adhering a world view around these biased perspectives.  This leads to a huge amount of misconception which has led to the reason why I am even writing a post like this in the first place.  Economics is indeed the dismal science.  Dismal mainly because it’s dominated by policy analysts who are pitching political views as operational realities. See the following piece for more detail: http://pragcap.com/economics-is-mostly-a-policy-debate-masquerading-as-a-scientific-debate There’s a lot more where that came from.  You can read more myths here.  I would also highly recommend my paper on the monetary system. FREE AppDownload
The biggest banks in the US are expected to report falling revenue for the final quarter of last year as loan activity slows and results are dragged lower by potential fines from regulators. JP Morgan will kick off the fourth-quarter earnings season when it reports results for the three months ending in December, on Tuesday. The bank will be among three of the four biggest US commerical banks to report declining revenue in the fourth quarter, according to consensus figures. On Thursday, Goldman Sachs and Citigroup are expected to report revenue down 16pc to $7.7bn, and down 1.8pc to $18.3bn respectively. Only Bank of America is forecast to deliver revenue growth up 7.8pc to $21.2bn. The Mortgage Bankers Association estimates that banks logged $293bn in mortgage originations in the fourth quarter, down from $401bn in the third. US banks also had to put money aside in preparation for fines from the Federal Housing Finance Agency for selling bad mortgages to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Bank of America, Goldman Sachs and the Royal Bank of Scotland are among the 10 banks yet to reach a settlement with the FHFA. The slow final quarter has not held back bonuses for the industry’s top bankers in London and New York who’s pay is linked to specific deals such as the £84bn sale of Vodafone’s stake in US telecoms giant Verizon Wireless. Karen Cook, president of Goldman Sachs in Europe, is expected to receive between £3m and £6m, although it could be her last bonus of this size. European laws which came into force on January 1 now cap bonuses at 1 times the executive’s base salary or 2 times that figure if shareholders give their consent. The bonuses being handed out now relate to last year, and are expected to be around 10 to 15pc higher than those awarded for 2012, City sources said.  This article originally appeared at The Daily Telegraph .  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
48.6% of Spaniards aged 18 to 24 said they would accept any job, anywhere and even with a low income. 84.9% felt very or fairly likely to have to work on what is available, 61.7% considered it equally likely to have to go abroad, and 79.2% said they need to study more. Despite this, an overwhelming majority (80%) are convinced that, at least in the near future, will have to be financially dependent on their family. Future is Black Young Spaniards recognize enjoy the benefits of the welfare state far more than their parents, except as regards stability and security. They are also convinced that their children will live much worse than them. Frustrated Expectations Only 20% of young people believe things will improve in the next two or three years, compared to 36% who think it will get worse. Moreover, nearly three in four young people (71%) considered likely to find little or no work in the coming year. Ikea Spain Gets 100,000 Applicants for 400 Jobs Also via translation from El Economista, please consider Ikea Spain Gets 100,000 Applicants for 400 Jobs The Swedish multinational Ikea will have work to select staff for a store in Valencia because 100,000 people submitted applications to fill 400 jobs. Ika received a total of 100,000 job applications through a web page offering. In the first 48 hours of processing, Ikea received 20,000 applications. The store, which will open in summer, will have a staff of 400 employees and also generate about 80 indirect jobs to cover services such as security, transport and cleaning, among others. Walmart, McDonalds Comparison To be fair, there is a major difference between McDonalds' employees and Spaniards seeking jobs. The McDonalds' employees demanding higher wages have jobs. Those seeking jobs, don't. However, every McDonalds' employee knew their wage when they were hired. Like Spaniards willing to accept low wages, they took the jobs anyway. 1 Million McDonalds Applicants I cannot find anything recent on McDonalds, but on April 28, 2011, Bloomberg reported "McDonald’s and its franchisees hired 62,000 people in the U.S. after receiving more than one million applications, the Oak Brook, Illinois-based company said today in an e-mailed statement. Previously, it said it planned to hire 50,000." Walmart 23,000 Applicants for 600 Jobs On November 19, 2013 NBC Washington reported Walmart to Open First D.C. Stores Dec. 4 Walmart's H Street and Georgia Avenue locations will open Dec. 4 at 8 a.m. Both the 103,000-square-foot Georgia Avenue store and the 74,000-square-foot H Street location will feature fresh produce, a deli, organic food items and a full-service pharmacy. The stores will hire a combined 600 associates after combing through the more 23,000 applications its received from potential employees. The arrival of Walmart has not been a smooth one. Both stores were on the verge of never opening after the retail giant threatened to pull its plans if Mayor Vincent Gray signed a living wage bill. The Large Retailer Accountability Act, known colloquially as the "Walmart Bill," would have required  the company -- and other big-box retailers -- to pay its employees a minimum of $12.50 an hour. Gray vetoed the bill in September. Minimum wage in the District currently stands at $8.25 an hour. Reflections on Living Wages Take a poll of those employees. I bet 100% of them are happier to have a job at $8.25 an hour vs. no job at some presumed "living wage" that they would not get because there were no jobs. Of course, now that they have a job and should be happy, some union activist is going to try to convince them they shouldn't be happy. The Real Problem Other than a couple of like-minded Austrian bloggers, no one has bothered to complain about the real problem: The Fed pumping money supply like mad, while holding interest rates low. Five Results I blasted the Fed regarding these issues early Friday. For details and truly educational reading, please see Money as Communication: A Purposely "Non-Educational" Fallacious Video by the Atlanta Fed.Read more at http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com/2014/01/486-of-spaniards-aged-18-24-would-take.html#3DQVaJ2y1JKWyiLz.99 FREE AppDownload
REUTERSThis is what trading looked like in Hong Kong in 2000.Economists and traders are still trying to unpack what happened with Friday's disappointing December jobs report. PIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian described it as "somewhere between puzzling and worrisome." The shortfall in payrolls has largely been attributable to cold weather. Indeed, construction jobs saw payrolls drop by 16,000 during the period. Still, economists argue there are discrepancies.  But until the revised data come out, most economists don't think one bad jobs report will derail the economy or the path of monetary policy. This week offers a ton of economic data that may confirm or deny the lousy jobs report. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary It's Q4 earnings season. "The estimated earnings growth rate for Q4 2013 is 6.1%," said FactSet's John Butters. "The Financials sector is projected to have the highest earnings growth rate for the quarter, while the Energy sector is projected to have the lowest earnings growth rate for the quarter." Butters says that the big themes to watch are the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange movements, the status of Europe's stabling but weak economy, and the growth contribution from the emerging markets, which are showing signs of slowing. "For Q1 2014, analysts are expecting earnings growth of 4.3%," said Butters regarding guidance. "However, earnings growth is projected to improve in each subsequent quarter for the remainder of the year. For Q2 2014, Q3 2014, and Q4 2014, analysts are predicting earnings growth rates of 9.2%, 12.8%, and 13.7%. For all of 2014, the projected earnings growth rate is 10.5%." FREE AppDownload
Robert Hensley/FlickrThe American economy is being reshaped along the booming industries of technology and energy, according to new rankings of America’s Best Performing Cities by the Milken Institute. In the 2013 rankings, thirteen cities defined by Milken as tech hubs made it into the top 25, while nine could attribute their impressive growth to the energy industry, notably the shale and natural gas renaissance.  Milken's ranking is based on data from both long- and short-term growth in jobs, wages, salaries, and technological output. FREE AppDownload
A diversified portfolio is one that consists of uncorrelated assets.  In other words, these are assets that don't move hand-in-hand all of the time.  Diversification reduces volatility. It's important to recognize that correlations are not static. During periods of panic, correlations increase as investors and traders buy and sell stuff almost indiscriminately.  And that's not the only thing that causes correlations to evolve. The chart below comes from a recent presentation given by Wharton finance professor Jeremy Siegel, author of Stocks For The Long Run. It shows the changing correlation between the S&amp;P 500 and six other asset classes since 1965. There are a few interesting things to note. EAFE is MSCI's index of developed market stocks and EM represents the emerging market stocks. Both have seen correlations approach 1 in recent years.  This likely reflects the growing presence of U.S. companies abroad and vice versa. Gold continues to have a near-zero correlation with the S&amp;P, which means they basically move independant of each other. The U.S. dollar currently has the most negative correlation with the S&amp;P.  A weak dollar makes imports more expensive. However, it also makes U.S. goods more competitive overseas. Jeremy Siegel
WikiMedia CommonsDealBook's Alexandra Stevenson has an article on activist investors like Daniel Loeb, Carl Icahn, David Einhorn and Bill Ackman. One unidentified hedge fund manager in the article has a passive aggressive approach to dealing with executives at companies he's targeting. The fund manager told Dealbook that he uses a mug during talks with execs that features photos of chairmen his hedge fund has ousted.   From DealBook:  But even though activists are more refined in their methods today, many keep a bully tactic or two in their back pocket. A partner at one activist hedge fund, based in New York, has a mug he likes to use during talks with corporate executives. The mug features the photographs of chairmen his hedge fund has removed in earlier activist campaigns. If this is not persuasive enough to make the executives pay attention, the hedge fund manager, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, will threaten to take his activist case to the public. “There’s one line that works,” he said. “ ‘We can make you famous, and not for the reason you want to be famous.’"  Hmm... who could that be?      FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Arko DattaDoh!When financial asset correlations were much higher, it was more difficult to tell the difference between the good and bad fund managers, because no matter how good their investment decisions were, everything in the market basically moved hand-in-hand. But those correlations are tumbling, and the market is increasingly separating the successful investors from the crappy ones. We often hear the cliche: "It's a stock pickers' market." But isn't it always a stock pickers' market? The truth is some market conditions are better at enabling stock pickers and active fund managers to see their picks outperform (or underperform) the market average. One such market condition is low correlations. This is when stocks (or other financial assets) see their prices move independently from each other. During periods of crisis and elevated volatility, investors tend to buy and sell stocks almost indiscriminately. Correlations are high. But with the financial crisis years behind us and the economy showing solid signs of improvement, correlations have been coming down. See this chart of correlations within the S&amp;P 500 from Citi's Eric Siegel (arrow added): Citi Private Bank Nuveen Asset Management's Bob Doll says falling correlations means we'll see more active fund managers beat the funds that aim to track the benchmark indexes. "Recent years have been disappointing for active manager’s ability to outperform benchmarks," said Doll. "With the broadening of the equity market and the reductions of correlations, the ability of active managers to outperform can increase. Whether or not the percentage of outperforms crosses 50% is a debatable issue, but the fundamental support for that outcome seems to be increasing. As cheap stocks outperform expensive ones and companies with improving fundamentals outperform companies with deteriorating fundamentals, active managers have a better chance to outperform. Further, a reduction in the number of active players perhaps reduces the competitive landscape somewhat as well." At a breakfast last week, Doll offered this chart showing the increasing number of active managers who have been able to beat their benchmarks. Nuveen Asset Management On the flip side, the active fund managers who aren't able to beat their benchmarks will come under increasing amounts of pressure to perform or risk losing clients. You see, back when correlations were high, bad stock picks were indiscernible from the good ones. Everything would move hand-in-hand with the whims of the market. No matter how bad (or good) you were, you were lost in the mix of fund managers because of this. With correlations coming down, crappy stock pickers and fund managers will have nowhere to hide. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike CasseseMary Barra, GM's Senior Vice President for Global Product Development, speaks during the final press preview day for the North American International Auto Show in Detroit, Michigan, January 10, 2012. DETROIT (Reuters) - Mary Barra, the next CEO of General Motors Co &lt;GM.N&gt;, sent a powerful message to colleagues last year when she challenged about 250 designers and engineers at GM's Vehicle Engineering Center - to a paper sailboat race. "She wanted them to have fun at a highly stressful time, but also encourage teamwork and collaboration ... to show that's how we run our business on a global basis," said John Calabrese, GM's vice president of global engineering. Patterned after an April event that Barra and team members staged with third graders at Detroit's Bates Academy, the internal "skimmer" competition brought together teams of executives vying for such awards as fastest boat, most creative design, best logo and most over-budget. In deceptively simple fashion, the sailboat race addressed perhaps the biggest concern to Wall Street analysts and investors and the major challenge facing the 52-year-old electrical engineer and Stanford MBA: How to continue breaking down silos and walls within the U.S. automaker's historically dysfunctional and disconnected corporate culture and remake GM into a more collaborative and customer-centric enterprise. When she takes the reins from Dan Akerson on Wednesday, Barra, a Detroit-area native and GM "lifer" who started as an 18-year-old intern in 1980, also will be expected to tackle some unfinished business. Among her tasks: Overhauling GM's global brands, reviving and returning to profitability the company's battered European operations, and fattening up profit margins, which lag those of major competitors. Barra's promotion has drawn mixed reviews outside Detroit, where she is little-known. Even Wall Street has expressed some skepticism. "Her reputation is (as) a bit of a lightweight," said an investment banker who has worked with GM. "She has not distinguished herself in any heavy-duty operating role. She's sort of a blank slate." That is not the case at GM, where Barra's father, Ray Makela, was a diemaker at Pontiac for 39 years and where she trained on the factory floor while earning a degree at General Motors Institute in Flint, Michigan. Barra's career started to pick up speed after she won a GM fellowship to the Stanford University MBA program, from which she graduated in 1990. Positioned on the management fast track at a relatively early age and mentored by a number of top executives — virtually all men — Barra was given increasingly greater responsibility as she knocked off one task after another. Most recently she has helped spearhead GM's ongoing globalization efforts, focusing the past three years on reducing cost, complexity and waste in the automaker's sprawling product development and manufacturing operations. To date, she has been only partly successful in increasing the number of parts shared by GM vehicles around the world. The company still trails U.S. rival Ford Motor Co &lt;F.N&gt; and European giant Volkswagen AG&lt;VOWG_p.DE&gt; in moving its products to common platforms. GM under Barra is aiming to shift more vehicles to a handful of core platforms that will offer a greater degree of flexibility and parts interchangeability, thus reducing engineering and production costs. But that shift appears to be at least several years from completion. Barra has demonstrated her technical and financial chops in a variety of key jobs over the past 15 years. Following a three-year stint as an executive assistant to then-Chairman Jack Smith and Vice Chairman Harry Pearce, she was tapped in 1999 to head internal communications, a role in which she helped GM repair relations with the United Auto Workers after a crippling strike in Michigan. She then spent two years as an executive director in GM's North American vehicle operations before being assigned in 2003 to oversee the launch of the Cadillac DTS and Buick LeSabre as manager of the Detroit-Hamtramck assembly plant. Her knack for team-building still resonates a decade later with George McGregor, president of UAW Local 22 at the plant. McGregor described Barra as "a people person, great to work with." One criticism of Barra, according to a former GM executive who worked with her, is that "she was never in a job long enough to have much of an impact." Several of the people interviewed for this story asked not to be named because they still do business with GM. The record — and the recollections of more than a dozen current and former colleagues — tells a different story. Although she has not run a GM operating unit — a traditional stepping stone to the corner office — Barra in the past 10 years has headed three critical areas: Manufacturing engineering, human resources and, most recently, product development. She has made significant contributions in each job. As executive director, then vice president, of manufacturing engineering from 2004 to 2009, Barra worked with a team of top executives to overhaul and streamline GM's tangled production plants and processes around the world and better integrate them with product development, according to Gary Cowger, former group vice president of global manufacturing and labor relations. As a result, GM has been able to trim development costs and move products to market quicker. Then-CEO Fritz Henderson shifted Barra in mid-2009 to head human resources as the corporation was undergoing a painful bankruptcy and tumultuous restructuring as part of a $49.5 billion U.S. government rescue. Barra revamped and simplified the company's convoluted HR policies and procedures and loosened the dress code, encouraging employees to dress "appropriately," colleagues said. She also helped new CEO Ed Whitacre, the former AT&amp;T Inc &lt;T.N&gt; chairman who replaced Henderson in late 2009, to thin GM's swollen management ranks and shuffle jobs and personnel. "She and I spent a lot of time together trying to reorganize GM," said Whitacre. "She's steady in the boat." Barra may have had the greatest impact — and encountered the most internal resistance — as head of GM's $15 billion global product development group since early 2011. Her contribution was not only to continue the global platform consolidation, but, as she did at HR, to streamline and simplify the way things got done. She managed some "significant business pruning," according to Jim Queen, former group vice president of global engineering. This included reducing the number of managers on each vehicle development team. Barra also revamped the product development process, breaking down each platform into modules and subsystems that could be more easily shared from region to region, according to a longtime Detroit-based auto consultant who has worked with GM. "These are not minor changes," the consultant said. "There was strong resistance from the different regions to do that (but) it has happened pretty fast and relatively smoothly, with a team that is now definitely more consistent and more united than before." Her more than three decades of experience at GM and deep knowledge of the GM system set Barra apart from Akerson and Whitacre, the two most recent CEOs, while her extensive technical background is radically different from Henderson and Rick Wagoner, the two GM finance veterans who held the job prior to Whitacre. Her hands-on management style, emphasis on teamwork and ability to express compassion are distinguishing hallmarks. Two GM colleagues described regular meetings that Barra has held for smaller groups of employees, some to explain technical issues or discuss profit targets, others to map product and process changes that could have a broad strategic impact on the company and its financial health. Barra's warmth and her collaborative approach to problem solving have won her many admirers inside GM, said another colleague: "She engenders loyalty through example and kindness." "She rarely is the one who speaks first," said a source who has worked with Barra. "She makes sure everyone is heard" and when the time comes, she speaks — and makes a decision. She will need that confidence and support to continue attacking the inefficiencies, bloated bureaucracy and cultural issues that nearly strangled the old GM. Her selection as GM's next CEO could be "the most important decision that Dan Akerson has made," said analyst and longtime GM-watcher Maryann Keller. "But you won't know until she actually gets the job and appoints the people that she wants around her to help her finish a job that's only partly done." (Additional reporting by Deepa Seetharaman and Bernie Woodall in Detroit; editing by Matthew Lewis) FREE AppDownload
Friday's jobs report was a weird one.  For one, the pace of job creation was much worse than expected. Secondly, there was a huge drop in the unemployment rate. Also, there seems to have been a sizable impact from weather. And then there's this: the healthcare industry actually shed jobs. How weird is that? Just check out this chart showing the monthly change in healthcare jobs every month since 1990. Healthcare has been SUCH a steady creator of employment in the US, this is only the second month where there was a decline. Even throughout the economic crisis, healthcare didn't once have a month of lost jobs. Whether this is the start of a trend or a blip is an interesting question to watch. FRED FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe seven bridges of KoenigsburgThe George Washington Bridge isn't the only way to get from one landmass to another in New York City. NYC is built on an archipelago, and consequently has a ton of bridges. There are 47 non-rail-only bridges in New York City that appear on Wikipedia's list of said bridges. In this exercise, we answer: Is it possible to get around NYC by crossing every bridge just once? This is more than just a fun math puzzle. The process for answering this question eventually led to modern-day, real-world applications that couldn't have been imagined when a similar question was first posed nearly 300 years ago. One of the greatest mathematicians of all time, Leonhard Euler, once solved an interesting mathematical puzzle. The city of Koenigsburg in the 17th and 18th centuries was built at a fork in a river, and seven bridges connected the banks of the river to each other and to an island in the middle. Euler came up with an elegant answer to the deceptively simple question of whether or not it was possible to walk over each of the seven bridges exactly one time each. Euler was able to show, using a line of reasoning explored below, that this was not possible: The way the bridges were configured, such a walk could not exist. Business Insider is headquartered in a city that also has a number of bridges, and so we were curious as to whether a tour of the bridges of New York City, going over each bridge exactly once, was possible. This map shows those bridges that are readily available in the city government's publicly available map of all city streets: NYC Dept. of City Planning/ Business Insider We will not have to worry about all of these bridges. There are a lot of small bridges covering waterways entirely contained in some landmass — the tiny red dots in western Brooklyn going over the Gowanus Canal, or the handful of bridges over Newtown Creek on the border between Brooklyn and Queens. These small, in-landmass bridges, traversing an inlet or a creek surrounded by land, are trivial in our analysis of whether or not it is possible to go over every bridge in New York. We can walk or drive over all of these bridges exactly once by default: Go across one bridge over Newtown Creek, walk around the creek, and then go over the next bridge: NYC Dept. of City Planning/ Business Insider Since we can walk around these in-landmass waterways in this fashion, we just need to concern ourselves with bridges between distinct landmasses. We include in this set of bridges the Marine Parkway-Gil Hodges Memorial bridge connecting southeastern Brooklyn to Rockaway Peninsula, even though the latter is connected to the former by land, since we would prefer to not have to leave the city and go into Nassau County on our bridge tour. Here are the 27 inter-landmass bridges: NYC Dept. of City Planning/ Business Insider There is a lot going on in the Harlem River between Manhattan and the Bronx, so here is a closeup of that area: NYC Dept. of City Planning/ Business Insider We run into an immediate problem for our goal of crossing every bridge exactly once. There are a handful of islands that are connected by only one bridge — Staten Island in the southwest, Roosevelt Island in the East River, Riker's Island prison just north of Queens, and City Island to the east of the Bronx. These bridges are in blue on the next map: NYC Dept of City Planning/ Business Insider These bridges are automatically going to be a problem for us, and make it impossible to cross every bridge in the city. If we do not start on, say, Staten Island, we will at some point have to cross the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, and then we will be stuck on Staten Island. If we do start on Staten Island, we can leave the island, but then at some point we will have to cross to Roosevelt Island, and similarly be stuck there. So, unfortunately, because of these single-bridge island cases, we are out of luck, and the bridges of New York are untourable with only one crossing each. However, we can turn to the more modest problem of only looking at bridges between landmasses with two or more bridges connecting them by removing the problem cases. So, with all due respect to the good people of Staten, Roosevelt, and City Islands, and the not quite as good people of Riker's Island, we will be leaving these sites and their isolated bridges behind, leaving us with the following map: NYC Dept. of City Planning/ Business Insider Although this problem is more modest in scope, as we are no longer looking at every bridge in New York City, it is a little trickier. With our original map, we were able to quickly determine that going over every bridge exactly once is impossible by just looking at those four single-bridge islands. Here, it's a bit harder to tell glancing at our new map whether or not our tour over the remaining 23 bridges is possible. All that mattered for these relatively isolated islands is the number of bridges connected to them. The actual size or location of the island, or which landmass the island connects to, or how long the bridge was, or how far the bridge was from other bridges on another landmass, did not change anything.  For the remaining landmasses and bridges, this pattern continues. The only thing that will be relevant in figuring out whether we can take a tour of these bridges is the number of bridges connected to each landmass. The key is seeing that for most of our landmasses, we need an even number of bridges connected to that landmass. Except in the cases of our starting location and our ending location, if we cross a bridge to get to an area, we will have to later leave that area by another bridge. Since our intermediate landmasses need to have their bridges come in pairs — one bridge to enter the landmass, and one bridge to leave the landmass — they will need to have an even number of bridges connected to each of them. This gives us a pretty simple criterion to see whether or not it is possible for any configuration of landmasses and bridges to take a walk over each bridge exactly once: We need to have at most two landmasses with an odd number of bridges leading to each of them, and every other landmass needs an even number of bridges leading to it. This realization was at the heart of Euler's solution to the original Bridges of Koenigsburg problem. In Koenigsburg, each of the four relevant landmasses was connected by an odd number of bridges, making a bridge tour impossible. In these terms, we can see why our relatively isolated islands gave us so much trouble. Here we had four landmasses that had an odd number of bridges — one — connected to them. So, for each of our non-isolated landmasses, we can count up the number of bridges connected to each landmass, and see if we satisfy our criterion. We start in the northern half of the city: NYC Dept. of City Planning/ Business Insider Manhattan has 16 bridges leading out of it, the Bronx is attached to 13 bridges, and Wards Island has a total of four connections to other locations. Now we look at our southern landmasses: NYC Dept. of City Planning/ Business Insider Brooklyn and Queens together have nine bridges, and the Rockaways and Broad Channel Island have two bridges each. So, our bridge counting criterion is satisfied. Four of our six landmasses — Manhattan, Wards Island, the Rockaways, and Broad Channel Island — all have an even number of bridges coming into and out of them. These will be the intermediate landmasses in our tour. Only two of the landmasses — the Bronx and Brooklyn/Queens — have an odd number of bridges connected. These will be our starting and ending locations. So we should be able to make a tour of the non-isolated bridges of New York City. It turns out that there are a number of ways to do this. As an example of one such tour, we start in the Bronx, and zig zag back and forth across the Harlem River between the Bronx and Manhattan. Then, we take advantage of the RFK Triborough Bridge and 103rd St pedestrian bridge to cover Wards Island, and then head through Queens to hit the two bridges linking eastern Queens and the Bronx: NYC Dept. of City Planning/ Business Insider To finish our tour, we head south over land through Queens, take the Jamaica Bay bridges, and then finish up with the Queensboro Bridge and the three bridges linking Brooklyn and Manhattan: NYC Dept. of City Planning/ Business Insider So, it is in fact possible, with the exception of the single-bridge islands, to go over each of the bridges in New York City exactly once. This particular puzzle is, at a glance, mostly just a fun observation, whose only application is for particularly fastidious marathon runners. However, it holds an important place in the history of mathematics. Euler's writings on the Bridges of Koenigsburg problem represented some of the first work in what would become the modern mathematical areas of topology and graph theory. Topology is the study of those geometric properties of shapes and spaces that do not rely strictly on exact distances. The problem of finding a path covering all the bridges in a city exactly once is a topological problem — the distances between bridges, the sizes of the different landmasses, and the exact positioning of the bridges do not matter. The only thing we need to know about a city is how the landmasses are connected to each other by bridges, a topological concern. Wikimedia CommonsLeonhard EulerThis problem can also be expressed in terms of modern graph theory, and Euler's solution to the problem resembles the techniques used in this subject today. Graph theory describes systems where we have some collection of objects, usually represented as points or "vertices," in which pairs of objects may or may not be connected to each other, with connections represented by lines or "edges" between the points. Graph theory is enormously useful in studying networks. Power grids, computer networks, and relationships between people on social networking sites — to give just a few examples — can all be modeled by different types of graphs, and results from graph theory are essential to understanding and managing these complex systems. The bridge problem can be easily expressed as an abstract graph: Our vertex points are the islands and landmasses in our city, and for each bridge between two landmasses, we place a linear edge between the corresponding vertices. Our question then becomes whether or not we can find a path through this graph that goes through each edge exactly once, and our solution is that this is possible only if at most two vertices are connected to an odd number of edges. While Euler did not frame the problem using exactly this more modern terminology, his idea of analyzing a graph by considering things like the number of edges connected to a particular vertex is a fundamental part of graph theory. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/James Fassinger The 850 horsepower 2013 Shelby Ford Mustang GT 500 Super Snake is displayed at the North American International Auto Show in Detroit, Michigan January 15, 2013.DETROIT (Reuters) - General Motors Co &lt;GM.N&gt; named a new chief executive, Ford Motor Co &lt;F.N&gt; kept its old leader and Chrysler Group LLC's CEO averted a divisive public offering. And that was just in the last 30 days. This year is shaping up as a test of leadership at GM, Ford and Chrysler, five years after the U.S. auto industry's searing restructuring. While the risks ahead are no longer life-threatening, how the companies respond will set their direction for years to come and signal whether the lessons of the financial crisis were embedded deeply enough. "It's a turn of an era," Xavier Mosquet, senior partner and managing director at Boston Consulting Group, said in an interview. "Frankly, it is a totally different, new type of competitive situation that is emerging." Analysts see 2014 as a transition year, with slowing growth in the U.S. auto market and companies facing a renewed mandate to gain ground overseas. The 2015 contract talks with the United Auto Workers union also loom in the background. In the weeks leading up to this year's Detroit auto show, GM, Ford and Chrysler have all taken steps that highlight the leaders who will help them face what Mosquet described as the most competitive North American market in decades. GM vaulted its product development chief, Mary Barra, to the top spot last month. Ford CEO Alan Mulally ended months of speculation by saying last week that he would not leave to run Microsoft Corp &lt;MSFT.O&gt; . And on New Year's Day, Sergio Marchionne struck a long-sought deal allowing him to merge Chrysler and Italy's Fiat, the two automakers he has led since 2009. These moves signal that GM, Ford and Chrysler will maintain the strategies that have allowed them to emerge from the crisis with stronger balance sheets and more attractive vehicles. But their leaders will need to be more flexible. Analysts note that the skills needed in a turnaround differ from those needed during growth years, when a wrong bet can undercut a company's future. "In fixing a company, the issues you have to deal with are very apparent because they are the issues that make or break a business," independent auto consultant Maryann Keller said. "When you're running a company, you've got options," she added. "You're not fixing anything, it's not financially broken anymore, but dealing with a very competitive market place is actually in some respects harder." Each U.S. automaker enters the year at a different stage of its transformation, with Ford in first place, followed by GM and then Chrysler, according to many analysts and industry observers. The positions reflect the speed at which each company has been able to restructure. Mulally was hired in 2006 to lead Ford's turnaround by knitting together its global business units to achieve economies of scale. His push helped the No. 2 U.S. automaker avoid the federal bailouts required by GM and Chrysler in 2009. This year will be the busiest year of vehicle launches in Ford's 111-year history and marks the toughest test yet of Mulally's "One Ford" strategy. It will also test the abilities of his presumed successor, Chief Operating Officer Mark Fields, who has spent the last year focused on improving quality. But the cost of Ford's new launches - including the highly anticipated F-150 pickup truck that is expected to be unveiled at the Detroit auto show on Monday - will dent Ford's profit this year. Ford must also grow its operations outside North America and convince investors of Fields' capabilities. "In the case of Ford, the strategy has been defined and we're very clearly in the execution phases of the strategy that oftentimes is harder than crafting the strategy itself," Guggenheim Securities analyst Matthew Stover said. "In the case of GM, I think they're still crafting their strategy." Under outgoing GM CEO Dan Akerson, Barra led an effort to simplify and unify the No. 1 U.S. automaker's engineering and design processes around the world to free up cash that GM can spend on in-car technology and other new features. The selection of Barra reflects Akerson's desire to shake up a culture he said was bedeviled by "decades of poor decisions and indecisions and no decisions. Barra will have to make this change, while continuing her work to shrink the number of vehicle platforms at GM, reverse losses in Europe and cement the company's position in China, the world's largest auto market. Other challenges include expanding into other critical emerging markets elsewhere in Asia. Meanwhile, Marchionne's slow-motion merger of Italy's Fiat &lt;FIA.MI&gt; and Chrysler is yet another attempt at building global scale. His agreement with Chrysler's minority shareholder allows Fiat to gain full control of the No. 3 U.S. automaker and avoid an initial public offering he publicly denounced. Now he will focus on revamping Fiat's Alfa Romeo brand, a marque the Italian automaker has attempted to revive several times with little success. However, what all three U.S. automakers have in common are the labor talks each will face in 2015 with the United Auto Workers union, which represents many of the companies' hourly U.S. workers. Union leaders have already signaled a desire to claw back some of the cost-cutting changes to wages and benefits they surrendered over the last decade. High on their list is the potential elimination of the two-tier wage scale that has allowed the U.S. automakers to bring costs in line with rivals like Japan's Toyota Motor Corp. &lt;7203. (Reporting by Deepa Seetharaman; Editing by Dan Grebler) FREE AppDownload
ReutersInvestors are hurting their long-term returns by focusing too much on assets that can be cashed in at virtually any moment, according to a new outlook published by Citi Private Bank. The $290 billion Citi unit, which serves clients with at least $25 million in assets, believes that individuals with years of investing ahead shouldn't be afraid to lock their money up for months or years in real estate, hedge and private equity funds, and other so-called illiquid asset classes. "Have investors raised their risk tolerance too much while reducing their liquidity preference too little? The value of select less-liquid investments may be underestimated," said the report, which was co-written by Global Chief Investment Strategist Steven Wieting and others. "With higher potential returns, greater control, and the ability to participate in strategies unavailable in public markets, illiquid investments can potentially offer a premium to liquid investments and add material value to a balanced portfolio, especially when consistently implemented," it added. Just how much of a premium do illiquids offer? Citi estimates, for example, that private equity and real estate plays will generate an annualized return for investors of 11.9 percent over the next 10 years. (Read more: Family makes a $100M bet on low hedge fund fees) That's down from 2009 estimates but still compares favorably to a 3.4 percent estimated return for developed market corporate credit and 6.7 percent for developed market large-cap stocks over the same period. CNBC, Citi Private equity firms often lock up investor money for 10 years, making it the most illiquid of investments. But the returns can be phenomenal if the right manager is used. As of June 2013, the top 25 percent of buyout-focused private equity funds had produced a 10-year total annual return of 26.3 percent, the report said, and the top 25 percent of real estate-focused PE funds returned 29 percent. That compares to an S&amp;P 500 total return of 7.2 percent. (Read more: No January jitters thanks to Fed: Hedge fund pro) Hedge funds are less liquid—usually locking up capital for the first year and then offering quarterly redemption opportunities—but can still produce strong returns, according to Citi. Citi is recommending equity-focused hedge funds in 2014, especially those that have expertise in specific industries or that practice "event-driven" strategies to take advantage of corporate deals. The bank said credit hedge funds are less attractive but that European bond traders still had opportunities. "Overall, we continue to see our clients underexposed to hedge funds relative to our 16 percent recommended allocation—a trend that we strongly feel needs to be addressed," it said. "The current low-yield environment, with equity market rallies over the past few years, argues strongly for adding a source of uncorrelated returns to a diversified portfolio. Simply put, the easy money in the traditional markets is likely over." (Read more: This could be the next big thing for hedge funds) Bonds are another way to exchange liquidity for higher potential returns. "No balanced portfolio should have a zero fixed-income weighting," the report stated. "For those investors who are also willing to hold individual bonds until maturity ... we note the potential for yield enhancement in high-quality bonds that are infrequently traded and in some alternative bond structures." Citi noted opportunities in less liquid residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities and collateralized loan obligations, for example. —By CNBC's Lawrence Delevingne. Follow him on Twitter  FREE AppDownload
Meet David Scott. He leads HP's storage business. HP got him in 2010 during a $2.35 bidding war with Dell, when it acquired storage company 3Par, where he was CEO. In 2010, that acquisition seemed like another classic HP splurge. HP has made a series of huge acquisitions that have turned out to be flawed. For instance, it bought Palm for $1.2 billion and promptly killed the WebOS tablet that came from it; it bought EDS for $13.9 billion and eventually wrote off $8 billion of that; it bought Autonomy for $11 billion and, less than a year later, wrote off $8.8 billion, a major embarrassment that led several HP directors to resign among other fallout. To buy 3Par for $2.35 billion, HP outbid Dell by $400 million, paying $33 per share (topping Dell's $32 per share offer). The stock had been trading at under $10 before Dell and HP went to war, Computerworld reported. Many analysts said HP overpaid, the AP reported. 3Par had had annual revenue of $194.3 million, and HP paid 10 times revenue. That was a particularly astonishing multiple in 2010, when the U.S. economy was still reeling. As of 2013, 3Par was on track to generate $1 billion in revenue, HP CEO Meg Whitman told ActiveWin.com Founder Robert Stein. 3Par offers storage hardware that companies install in their data center. When it comes to storage, the faster it is, the more expensive it is. So companies tend to buy more expensive storage for their most important apps and cheaper, slower storage for the less important apps. 3Par's claim to fame is that it packs all of these different types of storage into a single piece of hardware, a product called "converged storage." That makes it more affordable than traditional storage. That's why mid-range companies, like Johnson Memorial Hospital, (about $400 million in revenue) have replaced their old EMC storage with HP's 3Par, the company tells us. Mind you, HP's overall storage business is in decline. For it's last fiscal year that ended in October, storage net revenue decreased 6%, HP reported.  Whitman has repeatedly said she's relying on the growth of 3Par to help turn the company around. And 3Par is doing well. It grew 64% year over year, CFO Cathie Lesjak told analysts in November.  Overall, HP is still light years behind the 800- pound storage gorilla EMC, which owns 30% of the overall storage market, according to IDC. But 3Par is considered one of the few successful large-scale acquisitions HP has made in years. Much of that success is due to the senior vice president who cut his teeth in HP's storage business for a decade before 3Par recruited him to be its CEO in 2001. We recently talked to Scott about his role at HP:  Business Insider: Why did the 3Par acquisition go so well when others at HP didn't? David Scott: HP made many smart bets. One of the most important is that they asked me to run the overall storage business at HP. That was a huge vote of confidence at 3Par from the perspective of the 3Par employee, confidence that someone [was running] the integration that was looking out for employees. We lost very few people. BI: You were an ex-HP guy before you came to 3Par. Were you rooting for HP over Dell in the bidding? DS: Obviously, you're interested in doing the best for the shareholders but in the end we were very pleased that HP won. There were many of us that had previously worked at HP. BI: What's like when two giant tech companies are duking it out to buy your company? DS: There's very little sleep. You're running a company and [dealing with] two other companies. During the time that the public bidding war closed I was traveling in the U.K. I finished one meeting at 4 a.m. and we had scheduled a board meeting at 5 a.m. and I was desperate for the people to ring every phone at the hotel I was staying at to make sure I would wake up. FREE AppDownload
This past week, online retailer Overstock.com became the most mainstream retailer to start accepting Bitcoin. On Twitter, the company's CEO Patrick Byrne said the retailer saw $130K worth of Bitcoin orders on the first day. Byrne went on CNN International to talk about his company's Bitcoin acceptance and made a couple points that are worth noting. One is that the company immediately swaps out its Bitcoins back to US Dollars once the transaction is complete. Byrne says he's a Bitcoin believer, but until he has suppliers that accept Bitcoin, there's no reason to hold onto them. He'd also be interested in participating in a Bitcoin derivatives market at some point in the future to hedge against volatility. He also said he believes Amazon will be forced to accept Bitcoin at some point, as he claims the market is growing at 30% per month and that the company would be foolish to cede that market to others.  Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Max RossiA model presents a creation from Prada Spring/Summer 2014 collection during Milan Fashion Week September 19, 2013. MILAN (Reuters) - Travelling Chinese shoppers snapping up leather goods will drive sales growth in 2014 at luxury group Salvatore Ferragamo, its chief executive said on Sunday, before it showed a menswear collection aimed at promoting its Italian heritage. Michele Norsa said the group had closed 2013 in line with its expectations, but that it was important to wait until Chinese New Year in January to make forecasts for the year. "Travelling keeps being a strong driver of growth," Norsa told reporters before the show at Milan men's fashion week, singling out Chinese tourists to Europe and the United States. Chinese luxury consumers, who make up for almost one third of the market, are increasingly shopping abroad, partly thanks to simpler visa procedures in the United States and some European countries, according to consultancy Bain &amp; Co. A crackdown on giving luxury goods as gifts to win the favor of public officials in China has not affected Ferragamo's core business, Norsa said. "Shoes are our core category and in fact a shoe is not a gift, shoes are something you buy for yourself," Norsa said. The group founded as a women's footwear maker in Florence in 1927 reported net profit up 61 per cent in the first nine months of 2013. Sunday's menswear show featured cashmere coats in blocks of beige, brown and blue, dark pinstriped suits and bomber jackets with patterned knitted sleeves. Creative director Massimiliano Giornetti told Reuters before the catwalk show the collection had been inspired by the idea of home comforts such as furnishings and Italian food. "The consumer of Ferragamo really loves the idea of a kind of Italian lifestyle...enjoying life," Giornetti said. Attracting cash-rich tourists is especially important in Italy, where timid signs of economic recovery should also have a positive impact on consumption in 2014, Norsa said. "We need to attract tourists and not only Chinese, of course, I'm thinking about the Russians, the Middle Easterns...the biggest potential is partially unexploited." Norsa said he hoped the World Expo, a five-yearly international fair which will be held in Milan next year, could help boost Ferragamo's sales in Italy. "In the second part of the year (2014) we could have Expo Milano generating business traffic," he said. (Reporting by Isla Binnie, editing by William Hardy) FREE AppDownload
North Korea's Korean Central News Agency/APCitigroup currency analyst Steven Englander is out with a long Sunday note talking about everyone's favorite topic: digital currency. In it, he makes an important observation about the extreme inequality in the Bitcoin world: Best estimates are that there are about one million holders of Bitcoin;  47 individuals hold about 30 percent, another 900 hold a further 20 percent, the next 10,000 about 25% and another million about 20%, with 5% being lost.  So 1/10th of one percent represent about half the holdings of Bitcoin and 1 percent close to 80 percent (http://www.businessinsider.com/927-people-own-half-of-the-bitcoins-2013-12). The concentration of Litecoin ownership is similar (http://litecoin-rich-list.blogspot.com).  Most of the big wallets have been in place from early on, so sitting back and watching your capital grow has been a very successful strategy. The distribution of Bitcoin holdings  looks much like the distribution of wealth in North Korea and makes the China’s and even the US’ wealth distribution look like that of a workers’ paradise. There are estimates of a  Gini coefficient of 0.88 for Bitcoin, but if anything the estimates are low if big holders own multiple wallets and the overall concentration of Bitcoin wealth is greater than in the sample used to estimate the coefficients  (http://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/questions/86/is-it-possible-to-estimate-the-gini-coefficient-for-bitcoins-and-if-the-trend-is). The most recent estimate of Gini coefficients of wealth concentration does not show any country above 0.85 (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_distribution_of_wealth), but this sample did not include North Korea.  The uneven distribution of Bitcoin wealth may be the price to be paid for getting a rapid dissemination of the Bitcoin payments and store of value technology. If you build a better mousetrap, everyone expects you to profit from your invention, but users benefit as well, so there are social benefits even if the innovator grabs a big share. How problematic is the unequal distribution of Bitcoin? If you harbor the notion that Bitcoin is an alternative to the US Dollar/Fed system (as many diehard Bitcoin true believers do) then this seems very problematic, as a world where Bitcoin became the primary unit of exchange would be a severely unequal one. But if you see Bitcoin as just a payment system that augments the US Dollar — but doesn't replace it – then it's not clear how bad it is. Severe inequality in any given country has social problems because there's no easy escape from that world. Nobody is forced to live within the Bitcoin system, so it's not going to create the same kinds of social problems. This is a bit like the concerns that Bitcoin is deflationary, because the supply is fixed. This would be a problem if a country adopted Bitcoin and everyone were forced to use it... then that would create an incentive for everyone to horde, and commerce would grind to a halt. But since participation in Bitcoin is a fluid things (you can quickly enter into and out of Bitcoin participation) the deflationary aspect is there. As we've argued before, holding Bitcoin is in some sense holding equity in Bitcoin (even though it's not exactly a company). Thus talking about the Gini coefficient might make as much sense as talking about the Gini coefficient of, a public company, which has a combination of ultra-large individual and institutional shareholders and then a series of irrelevantly tiny minnow shareholders. Does that unequal distribution matter? Eh, not that much. FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - A more robust U.S. economy could lift 2014 profits and boost corporate spending, giving some comfort to investors worried about bloated stock prices. Faster economic growth should translate into better sales growth for the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index, and that has investors watching the coming fourth-quarter earnings reports to see if chief executives sound more optimistic - and if they plan on spending the gigantic pile of cash they are hoarding. Fourth-quarter growth looks like it is going to be mediocre, but an unusually high level of profit warnings for the quarter could set the stage for companies to beat expectations that have been lowered dramatically. For the S&amp;P 500, fourth-quarter profit growth is expected to have increased 7.7 percent from a year ago, while revenue is expected to have risen just 0.4 percent, Thomson Reuters data showed. But it is the outlook for the rest of the year that investors will watch closely. An improved pace of hiring - December's weak, weather-affected jobs report notwithstanding - along with increased domestic energy production, appreciating housing and asset prices and less fiscal drag from Washington could help push 2014's growth toward a more robust 3 percent. If that occurs, sales growth will rise as well. Analysts at Mizuho Securities noted this week that rising GDP is a good predictor of profit growth. "I think there's a good chance you'll see expectations generally rising as the year progresses," said Carmine Grigoli, chief investment strategist at Mizuho Securities in New York. Expected revenue growth for 2014 is currently 3.8 percent, according to Thomson Reuters data, after an estimate of just 1.8 percent in 2013, but some see it better than that. Goldman Sachs, for example, expects 5.1 percent growth thanks to economic improvement. The historical relationship between the economy and profit growth suggests the expected economic pick-up could add between 3 to 5 percentage points to S&amp;P profit growth, Grigoli said in a research note this week. That could also mean more growth could be coming from sales than in recent quarters, so companies will have to rely less on cost cutting to boost margins. Analysts forecast companies to start signaling that they're ready to spend more on capital expenditures after years of caution on that front and an increase in deal activity and share buybacks. "We would expect they would start to loosen their purse strings," said Karyn Cavanaugh, market strategist at ING US Investment Management. "We've had the fiscal cliff, the sequestration and the Washington shutdown, and the world hasn't fallen apart." Goldman Sachs analysts note that corporate balance sheets currently hold about $1.3 trillion in cash (excluding the financial companies). They expect big increases in buybacks and deal activity, but also see capital expenditures rising 9 percent in 2014, compared with a meager 2 percent rise in 2013. The better outlook for profits should ease concerns that valuations have become stretched following last year's nearly 30-percent rally in the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index. The forward four-quarter price-to-earnings ratio for the S&amp;P 500 is at the highest since the fourth quarter of 2008. Some of the optimism has been factored into profit forecasts, with double-digit growth expected in both the third and fourth quarters of 2014, Thomson Reuters data showed. S&amp;P 500 earnings growth for 2014 is seen at 10.8 percent, compared with 5.7 percent growth for 2013. Conservative outlooks by U.S. companies have meant reduced analyst forecasts for much of the past two years, even as the majority of companies have then exceeded weaker estimates. In fact, the ratio of profit warnings to positive outlooks for the fourth quarter is the worst since at least 1996, based on Thomson Reuters data. There were 9.8 negative outlooks for every one positive one. Expectations for robust growth may be premature as well. Friday's U.S. payrolls reports, for instance, showed that U.S. employers hired the fewest workers in almost three years in December, though some economists saw the setback as temporary. If the economy keeps pace with current projections, it could mean analysts have underestimated profit growth for the year. "The market increasingly will be looking at top line revenue growth, and it wants to see expansion in the top line," said Quincy Krosby, market strategist for Prudential Financial, which is based in Newark, New Jersey. Investors have been worried about how companies will be able to maintain profit margins. Net margins have been easing since 2011, according to Thomson Reuters data. They were at 9.73 percent in the third quarter of 2013, compared with 10.61 percent in the third quarter of 2011. The pace of fourth-quarter reports picks up next week, with results from top banks including JPMorgan Chase,Wells Fargo and Goldman Sachs. Intel Corp and General Electric are also reporting. (Reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch; Editing by Grant McCool) FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Denis Balibouse Trafigura logo is pictured in the company entrance in Geneva March 11, 2012.LONDON (Reuters) - Commodity trading giant Trafigura is going through a once-in-a-generation ownership reshuffle, spending billions of dollars to buy out its earliest shareholders and allocating stock to a new generation of would-be billionaire traders. A Reuters analysis of accounts for Swiss-based Trafigura shows it has spent around $2 billion on share buybacks over the past three years, and the unlisted company says it could spend another $1.5 billion until 2017 if profits allow. The scale of the exercise, in a company where shareholders' equity only just tipped $5 billion at the end of September, indicates a major rebalancing of ownership and confirms executives have no wish to follow rival Glencore &lt;GLEN.L&gt; into a public listing of its stock, which would be an alternative route for founder shareholders to cash out. "We undertake share buybacks for two reasons. First, to pay departing employee shareholders and, second, to rebalance shareholdings of current employees to avoid undesirable concentrations of ownership and to align shareholder return with contribution," a Trafigura spokesman said. All but one of the original founders from 1993 have retired from executive positions. It is not clear how much each of the retired men used to control, but no shareholder holds more than 5 percent in Trafigura's 2013 accounts, except for Claude Dauphin, a founder who remains chairman and chief executive and owns "less than 20 percent". "Dauphin is very much in control and remains a very strong revenue generator and deal maker," a senior executive at a rival trading house said. The rest of the shares are held by 700 senior managers, past or present, which would include any of the other living founders - Eric de Turckheim, Graham Sharp, Daniel Posen and Mark Crandall - still owning shares. Buybacks went up from $357 million in 2011, or roughly 10 percent of shareholders' equity at the time, to $787 million in 2012, or over 20 percent of equity. Last year, the buybacks amounted to as much as $855 million, or 17 percent of equity of about $5 billion. Together with planned buybacks of $1.515 billion until 2017, Trafigura will have changed more than two thirds of its ownership over six or seven years, assuming shareholdings are redeemed at balance sheet value. The company, whose board is filled with relatively young managers, doesn't disclose how shares are redistributed after buybacks or on what valuation basis newcomers buy in. "It is a once-in-a-generation change," a source at a rival trader said. The younger generation in charge now includes chief operational officer Mike Wainwright, head of mining and market risk Jeremy Weir, head of non-ferrous commodities Simon Collins, head of oil trading Jose Larocca, head of derivative trading Duncan Letchford and chief financial officer Pierre Lorinet. A record $10 billion initial public share offering by rival Glencore in 2011 produced a string of billionaires and created an expectation in the market that more trading houses would follow suit. Glencore's subsequent merger with Xstrata created a mining and trading giant with a capitalization of $68 billion, nearly 14 times Trafigura's book value, which could be multiplied several times for an IPO valuation. However, no major trading house has conducted an IPO since Glencore, preferring a private status that allows them to disclose as little as possible and avoid giving competitors an insight into their trading strategy. There is also an argument from fairness for maintaining a private company, in that an IPO can give an unearned bonus to those who have bought into a company below market value. "It is very much like the old Goldman Sachs model," an industry source said of the buyback philosophy. Wall Street bank Goldman was a private partnership throughout most of last century until it went public in 1999. Goldman's partners had opposed an IPO several times, with some senior leaders arguing that partners who were let in at book value should leave at book value, too, rather than be allowed to cash out at an IPO price that reflected the work of previous generations. Whatever its specific reasons, Trafigura's hefty buybacks reinforce its inclination to remain a private company owned by its employees. "We believe this is the best ownership model for our core trading business," Dauphin said in the company's financial statements last month. (Editing by Will Waterman) FREE AppDownload
AP/Yasin BulbulIn this photo provided by Turkish Prime Minister's Press Service, Hamas leader Halid Mashaal, right, is greeted by Turkey's Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Ankara, Turkey, Friday, March 16, 2012.While the government of Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan faces an extensive corruption investigation targeting his inner circle, the country's problems far exceed domestic graft. Turkey is entangled in several shady endeavors that could eventually jeopardize its standing as a key U.S. and NATO ally. "This is not just a Turkish underworld problem. This is a global illicit finance problem that intersects with rogue regimes and terrorist non-state actors," Dr. Jonathan Schanzer, a former terrorism finance analyst at the U.S. Department of the Treasury, told Business Insider. Based on his experience tracking issues manifesting in Turkey in recent years, Schanzer detailed the six "massive red flags" of the larger scandal: 1) Last year Turkey was almost blacklisted by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), an international terror finance regulatory body, for being out of compliance with its status obligations. "It was remarkable not because they were out of compliance, but because they were out of compliance for seven years," Schanzer, who is now the vice president of research at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, told BI. "They didn't do anything and they waited until the 11th hour to make changes." The only countries currently blacklisted by the FATF are Iran and North Korea. 2) "Turkey appears to be a top sponsor of Hamas right now," Schanzer said, referring to the U.S.-designated terrorist group that governs the Gaza Strip. He cited material support flowing from Turkey to Hamas for the construction of schools and mosques as well as unconfirmed reports of $300 million in annual aid. "If you take that and you add that to what we can now confirm of Hamas operatives working on Turkish soil, then there is an even greater cause for concern," Schanzer said. Multiple sources told Schanzer that Salah Al Arouri, the No.5 or 6 in the Hamas organization, is known to be based in Turkey. Arouri founded the West Bank branch of the Qassam Brigades, which is the armed wing of Hamas. The group stood out in eight day war against Israel in November 2012 and continues sporadic rocket attacks against Israel. "If one starts to connect the dots, you can't help but wonder if Arouri is directing these attacks from Ankara or wherever," Schanzer said, noting that other Hamas operatives may be active in Turkey. "If you think of their efforts to join the EU [and] their alliance with the U.S., it's just remarkable that they would take those sorts of risks" given U.S. laws against sponsoring terrorism. 3) Syria: "We continue to hear about the flow of weapons and goods and people over the border and the border is rather porous," Schanzer said. He noted that while "the Turks need to do this to maintain good relations to whomever is on the other side of the border," there are indications of assistance beyond lax border security. In December the U.S. Treasury designated Abd al-Rahman al-Nuaymi, the Qatari head of a prominent Geneva-based human rights group, as a major al-Qaeda terrorist financier and facilitator in Syria (and elsewhere).  Nuaymi, who was contacted in Istanbul by the Financial Times, denied the charges. "One just needs to put all of the things together to start to see a much more troubling trend," Schanzer told BI. 4) Erdogan's relationship with Yasin al-Qadi, a Saudi billionaire who was listed as a "Specially Designated Global Terrorist" by the U.S. Treasury in October 2001 for allegedly funding Osama bin Laden, Hamas, and other terrorist groups.  "The interesting thing about the al-Qadi issue is that when he was first designated, his front companies were all based in Turkey ... and he had quite a bit of operations on Turkish soil," Schanzer told BI. Erdogan has defended al Qadi for more than a decade. The prime minister's security detail has also escorted al Qadi into Turkey without a passport or visa. A list of people due to be arrested in the corruption probe included al Qadi, who is reportedly linked to the prime minister's son Bilal, but the orders were not carried out. "We don't know exactly what the relationship is with al-Qadi, but we know that his problems started in Turkey," Schanzer said. "It's very hard to look at this right now without remembering that and asking the question: Has he remained active in Turkey through this time?" 5) An extensive gas-for-gold scheme involving Iran, which ran from about March 2012 to the fall of 2013 and yielded Iran more than $13 billion dollars amid crippling sanctions implemented by the U.S. over the country's perceived nuclear program.  "It's a huge amount of money," Schanzer, who recently detailed the arrangement in Foreign Policy, said. "You can't ignore the fact that the Turks helped Iran with a massive sanctions-busting scheme."  6) "To add insult to injury, we have the Chinese missile deal ... where the Turks contracted with a Chinese company that's already on [the U.S.] proliferation list." So while the domestic corruption issues and political battle between Erdogan and powerful Islamic network created by Fethullah Gulen will be decided through courts and elections, the reasons listed above are international and central to U.S. interests in the region. Resolving these issues — particular those involving Erdogan's government supporting two suspected al Qaeda financiers and a U.S.-designated terrorist organization — may be critical to a continued alliance between Turkey and the U.S. "Yes it will be a sensitive issue and yes it will raise issues with Washington, but the alternative is unthinkable," according to Schanzer.REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueU.S. President Barack Obama and Turkish Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan (L) meet in New York September 20, 2011.That alternative would involve the status quo continuing to the point where members of Congress or the State Department or the Treasury were forced consider labeling Turkey a state sponsor of terrorism. "No one wants to do that, but the letter of the law is getter harder and harder to ignore that they might qualify," Schanzer said. "If left unchecked, this could be become a serious problem." The obstacle for the U.S. is that, given the Obama administration's divergent Middle East policy, Washington hasn't put itself in the best position to influence Erdogan's government.  "One gets the sense that the wheels started to come off across the board: Our Syria policy didn't hold up; our Iran policy appears to be at odds with itself; and our general counterterrorism policies across the region don't seem to be applied consistently," Schanzer said. "Turkey seems to be in the middle of all of that." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mary F. CalvertU.S. President Barack Obama shops with his daughter Malia at Politics and Prose Bookstore and Coffeehouse in Washington, November 30, 2013NEW YORK (Reuters) - Now that more than 2 million people have signed up for private insurance plans created by President Barack Obama's healthcare law, a crucial next check-up for the new marketplace will be to see how old customers are. Early data from a handful of state exchanges shows the administration needs more young adults to sign up in the next three months to help offset costs from older enrollees and prevent insurers from raising their rates. Critics of Obama's Affordable Care Act say the market won't attract enough young people to keep it financially viable, putting more pressure on government funds to compensate for any insurer losses. Data from seven states and the District of Columbia, which are running their own marketplaces, show that of more than 200,000 enrollees, nearly 22 percent are 18 to 34 years old, according to a Reuters analysis. The administration had hoped that over 38 percent, or 2.7 million, of all enrollees in 2014 would be 18 to 35 years old, based on a Congressional Budget Office estimate that 7 million people would sign up by the end of March. "The whole insurance relationship is counting on them signing up," said Dale Yamamoto, an independent healthcare actuarial consultant. "Otherwise rates will have to increase." The picture from the initial state data is likely to change, since it mostly includes people who enrolled only through November, before a year-end surge of sign-ups for people wanting coverage effective Jan 1. Many experts speculate the early enrollees were more likely to be in urgent need of coverage, and therefore more likely to be older or sicker. A recent survey by The Commonwealth Fund, a healthcare research foundation, found that 41 percent of those who had shopped at the various state marketplaces by the end of December were ages 19 to 34, up from 32 percent from an October survey. One marketplace with current data, the District of Columbia, said on Friday that of the 3,646 enrollees in private plans through Thursday, about 44 percent are young adults. Healthcare experts say many young healthy people may sign up only at the end of enrollment on March 31 to avoid paying the law's penalty for not having health insurance. The Affordable Care Act, popularly known as Obamacare, prevents insurers from charging people more if they have a health problem. Age is one of the few factors that can affect the price, with insurers allowed to charge up to three times more for a 64-year-old than someone in their early 20s. But the healthcare costs for a 64-year-old on average are nearly five times as much as a 21-year-old, according to a study of claims from three large insurers Yamamoto conducted for the Society of Actuaries. "The more that the marketplace is able to attract a broad mix of enrollees including the young and healthy ... the more that costs will be sustainable and premiums will be more affordable," said Robert Zirkelbach, spokesman for America's Health Insurance plans, a trade group for insurers. Other factors may be as crucial, if not more, in determining the stability of the new market, including the health status of enrollees, regardless of their age, and how that lines up with what individual insurers had projected. But those details will only become clearer later in the year based on the medical claims filed by the newly insured, making age the best early proxy about whether the market is sustainable. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, which oversees the marketplace for 36 states, has yet to provide any demographic data about enrollees. CMS is expected to release an enrollment report later this month. Data may come sooner from insurers as they discuss their recent financial performance with investors in the next few weeks. Humana Inc said on Thursday that the mix of enrollment in its marketplace plans were likely to be "more adverse than previously expected. But healthcare experts say insurers need a better mix of enrollees than seen in the early data. "If a quarter or more of the enrollees are young adults, I would think that's an encouraging sign, particularly for the first half of the open enrollment period," said Larry Levitt, senior vice president at the Kaiser Family Foundation healthcare think-tank. By the end of March, "if it's lower than that, I think there would be some cause for concern," Levitt said. Levitt and colleagues at Kaiser analyzed a scenario that they deemed "worst case" in which young adults represented 25 percent of enrollees. They found that costs then would be about 2.4 percent higher, but insurers would retain a very slim profit margin. As a result, the Kaiser authors projected the companies would raise premiums by a commensurate amount, but not enough to destabilize the market. Using the same data as Kaiser but different assumptions, Seth Chandler, a law professor at the University of Houston who specializes in insurance, said costs would be 3.5 percent higher, should only 25 percent of enrollees be young adults. "If we see fewer than 30 percent of the enrollees being in that 18-to-34 age bracket, that's a warning sign that there are problems," Chandler said. "If the demographics come in poorly, insurers are going to lose money." Chandler is a skeptic of the healthcare law and writes a blog called "ACA Death Spiral." Such a spiral is thought to occur if insurers facing higher costs raise premiums, so only very sick people buy coverage, leading to even higher premiums with the pattern continuing until the insurance market either disappears or shrinks to the point that it is not sustainable. The penalty for not buying insurance increases significantly by 2016, which should bring in more young and healthy holdouts over time. Not everyone, however, is significantly concerned about the age of Obamacare enrollees this year. Linda Blumberg, senior fellow at the Urban Institute's Health Policy Center, said that Obamacare's protections for insurers in the first few years means the program has time to get the demographics sorted out. "That all combines to make me much less worried about the mix for this year," Blumberg said. "I don't think we have to get a certain percentage of enrollees to be below age 35 or this thing crumbles." (Reporting by Lewis Krauskopf; Editing by Michele Gershberg and Andrew Hay) FREE AppDownload
