With news that the Buffalo Bills are just a nod of approval away from being sold, it appears that the market for professional sports teams has never been better, with television deals and merchandise at an all-time high, as well as increased visibility leading to a seller’s market. Every single sports team that’s been sold since the turn of the century has been sold at a significant gain, and that trend looks to continue well into the future. Using information gathered from Forbes, ESPN, and other outlets cited when necessary, here are the seven sports teams that have changed hands for the largest sums of money since the start of this millennium. Sold in 2012 to one of the wealthiest men on the planet, the Jacksonville Jaguars, like the Bills, prove that the NFL can make money anywhere, regardless of the team’s quality. Before purchasing the Jags, owner Shahid Kahn had previously tried to purchase a majority ownership of the St. Louis Rams. He now owns the Jacksonville team in its entirety. When Joe Ricketts and his family purchased the Cubs in 2009, they became just the fifth set of Cubs owners over the last 100 years, and just the seventh since 1902 — although they hold the distinction of paying the most money in history for an MLB franchise and stadium. The Cubs have yet to win a World Series since 1908. While the Miami Dolphins were officially sold in 2009, the groundwork started one year earlier, when Stephen Ross purchased half of the team, as well as the stadium and the land surrounding it, for $550 million. A year later, he purchased a remaining 45 percent from the old owner, Wayne Huizenga, and became, for all intents and purposes, the sole owner of the Florida franchise. The Dolphins opened their 2014 with a win over division rivals New England after spending the offseason rocked by the Jonathan Martin-Richie Incognito bullying scandal. Rob Foldy/Getty Images While the sale has yet to be completed, the Bills and their fans have to be excited that they’ll be staying in western New York, as the Buffalo Sabres owner doesn’t seem to have any inclination to move the team — something that was included in the will of the original Bills owner, Ralph Wilson. The Pegula family are expected to get the nod of approval from the NFL owners during their next scheduled meeting, on October 8. Malcom Glazer’s slow takeover of one of the most visible sports teams in the world was so bold and so noteworthy that it has its own Wikipedia entry. By the time Glazer passed away, earlier this year, the cumulative $1.4 billion that he spent establishing a controlling interest in the team had been undercut by the tremendous amounts of debt he took on in order to do so, and club supporters have often chafed at the relative cheapness that the team has displayed since being bought out in 2005. Getty Images When the Guggenheim Group, including — most famously — Magic Johnson, purchased the Dodgers in 2012, it was an end to the dubious ownership of Frank McCourt, which culminated in the MLB taking over the team because McCourt did not, apparently, have the money to continue to meet the payroll of a professional baseball franchise, as evidenced by the fact that he took the team into bankruptcy in 2011. The Donald Sterling saga finally concluded with a sale that was more than four times the franchise valuation — a perfect storm of a great team being unexpectedly available for purchase in one of the biggest markets in the country and a billionaire who’s been openly lusting for an NBA team, so much so that he was willing to handily outbid everyone else with cold, hard cash. Factor in the money burned by all parties involved during the contentious court proceedings, and the Clippers become the single most expensive sports team sold since 2000. FREE AppDownload
The Waldorf AstoriaThe Waldorf-Astoria.The iconic Waldorf-Astoria hotel is being sold to the Chinese insurer Anbang Insurance Group Co. Ltd for about $1.95 billion.  The 121-year-old hotel is a landmark in New York City: It has hosted dignitaries, politicians, and world-famous celebrities like Elizabeth Taylor and Princess Grace. It has also served as the home away from home for every US president since Herbert Hoover and has hosted foreign royalty like the Duke and Duchess of Windsor.  And now it's entering a new chapter, though Hilton will continue to manage the property. Rooms in the Waldorf begin at $399, while rooms in the Towers begin at $699 for suites and $1,299 for presidential-style suites.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A stronger U.S. dollar and weak global inflation are putting downward pressure on the pace of price increases in America, posing a challenge for the Federal Reserve, a top Fed official said on Saturday. "The dollar, it puts downward pressure on our inflation ... and we're at the point where we have to get inflation up," Chicago Federal Reserve Bank President Charles Evans told a conference hosted by Goldman Sachs. "As long as inflation is under 2 percent ... it tells us that the monetary authority is supposed to be doing more." (Reporting by Jason Lange; Editing by Paul Simao) FREE AppDownload

 The head of Temasek USA Boon Sim was recently interviewed by OneWire CEO Skiddy von Stade. He manages a $223 billion portfolio in the investment company owned by the Singaporean government, and had some pearls for anyone just starting out their careers. He talked about making the switch from an engineering degree to a career in finance, when he landed an internship with Credit Suisse in 1991. They were looking for people with a tech background to deal with companies like Cisco.  He worked there for 20 years and rose from intern to Global Head of Mergers and Acquisitions. He recently went back to his home country to give the commencement speech at his alma mater, the National University of Singapore. Here's some of his advice: "I would tell kids to keep an open mind. If you think about my career, where I've lived, what I've done - when I grew up in Singapore, I never envisioned I would be doing this ... I would say have a sense of adventure, try something new, take a risk, never talk yourself out of a adventurous situations, and its a big world out there. Be an explorer." After graduation, Sim says he wants three things from employees. Here's how he put it in the video: "One, we look for people who have high integrity - that's number one on our list. Two, we look for people who have a track record of accomplishments, whether it's in not-for-profit or for-profit - it doesn't really matter. We look for people with that track record, meaning that they were tenacious, they stayed with it. That's something that is important to us. Thirdly, we look for people who are intellectually curious, who never stop learning, who are always asking "what's the next," "gee how does this work," "help me understand this," because that's what drives our business." Watch the full OneWire interview above and subscribe to the series to get new interviews as soon as they are posted. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons"Our team has come to the realization that a prosecution of our craft along traditional lines will fade to irrelevance, ultimately ending in extinction," begins the existential note "Death of an Auto Analyst," by Adam Jonas, head of global auto research at Morgan Stanley.  Driverless cars and the end of individual ownership are coming faster than anyone thinks, he says. A great disruption is coming, and the message to his industry is clear: adapt or die. "In the internet of things, the automobile is the ultimate 'thing'. Without embracing the change, we have no future as auto analysts," he writes. Jonas doesn't say exactly when he expects steering wheels to be a thing of the past, but he compares the coming change to the switch from horse-drawn carriages to automobiles. He also sees a world in which everyone rents a car instead of owning one and more tech companies jump into the auto industry.  "We can debate the curvature of the journey, but to us the destination is crystal clear," he says. FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesCollege is about balance — yes, it's important to take your classes seriously, but it's equally as necessary to cut loose and have fun during your undergraduate years. Business Insider has created a list of schools that best embody this dual principle — the "work hard, play hard" mentality that many students look for. We found that there was no typical "work hard, play hard" school, and everything from liberal arts colleges to Ivy League universities to large state schools are represented in the following ranking. To compile this list, we used data from Niche, looking at its rankings of the best party schools and schools with the best academics, smartest students, best Greek life. Niche's college section — College Prowler — features close to one million in-depth student reviews on more than 8,000 schools. We've included a few quotes from each school's Niche profile in our ranking to help illustrate what the student body is like. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA general view shows the IMFC before their meeting at the World Bank/IMF annual meetings in Washington WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The International Monetary Fund's member countries on Saturday said bold action was needed to bolster the global economic recovery, and they urged governments to take care not to squelch growth by tightening budgets too drastically. With Japan's economy floundering, the euro zone at risk of recession and the U.S. recovery too weak to generate a rise in incomes, the IMF's steering committee said focusing on growth was the priority. "A number of countries face the prospect of low or slowing growth, with unemployment remaining unacceptably high," the International Monetary and Financial Committee said on behalf of the Fund's 188 member countries. The Fund this week cut its 2014 global growth forecast to 3.3 percent from 3.4 percent, the third reduction this year as the prospects for a sustainable recovery from the 2007-2009 global financial crisis have ebbed, despite hefty injections of cash by the world's central banks. The IMF has flagged Europe's weakness as the top concern, a sentiment echoed by many policymakers, economists and investors gathered in Washington for the Fund's fall meetings, which wrap up on Sunday. European officials have sought to dispel the gloom, with European Central Bank President Mario Draghi on Saturday talking about a delay, not an end, to the region's recovery. But efforts to provide more room for France to meet its European Union deficit target looked set to founder on Germany's insistence that the agreement on fiscal rectitude was set in stone. The IMF panel urged countries to carry out politically tough reforms to labor markets and social security to free up government money to invest in infrastructure to create jobs and lift growth. It called on central banks to be careful when communicating changes in policy in order to avoid financial market shocks. While not naming any central banks, the warning appeared aimed at the U.S. Federal Reserve, which will end its quantitative easing policy this month and appears poised to begin raising interest rates around the middle of next year. The Fed has debated a change to its commitment to holding rates near zero for a "considerable time" at its recent policy meetings, but is stepping gingerly to avoid roiling financial markets. It wants to avoid a repeat of the "taper tantrum" it touched off last year when it signaled its easing of monetary policy was drawing to a close.   (Writing by David Chance; Editing by Tim Ahmann) FREE AppDownload
ReutersReal estate developer Donald Trump during an Aug. 12 news conference to announce his first project in Mumbai. Donald Trump catapulted himself into the spotlight with his gilded real estate ventures and vibrant personality. The latter is what has made his show "The Apprentice" such a huge success. And over the years, he's had an opinion or two about the business world. "In the end, you're measured not by how much you undertake but by what you finally accomplish," Trump once said. Here, we check in on 11 Trump businesses to see what became of them over the years. Editor's Note: The first version of this post declared some of these businesses "bust" when they are, in fact, still in operation. Those errors have been corrected. FREE AppDownload
PBS NewshourRobert ShillerRobert Shiller isn't selling stocks yet.  On Friday, The Wall Street Journal's Jason Zweig published an article that followed several conversations with Yale professor Robert Shiller over the last couple of weeks. Among Shiller's comments on the market is that while stocks have certainly gone up, Shiller isn't selling yet. Zweig writes: On Thursday, as the Dow fell more than 300 points, Prof. Shiller told me, "The market has gone up for five years now and has gotten quite high, but I’m not selling yet." He advises investors to monitor not just the level of the market, but the "stories that people tell" about the market. If a sudden consensus about economic stagnation forms, that could be a dangerous "turning point," he says. Shiller, who authored in the classic book on investing "Irrational Exuberance" and developed the CAPE, or cyclically-adjusted price-to-earnings, ratio measuring stock market valuation, told Zweig that while the CAPE ratio is elevated relative to history, "how do we know history hasn't changed?" As of Friday's close, the CAPE ratio was at 25; the long-term average is about 16. Late last month, Shiller appeared on CNBC and floated the idea that perhaps the stock market is going higher because investors are nervous.  As we wrote at the time: "It's something about anxieties," Shiller said.  "You might think this should be the reverse, that the stock market should go down when people are anxious. People are anxious because of (geopolitical unrest), because of inequality, and people are worried about being replaced by a computer. All these things are on people's minds." But because of these anxieties, Shiller said, people want to save more, and because the economy has been weak, investors bid up the price of everything, and the stock market has been a major beneficiary of that. Shiller also spoke with Zweig about the bond market, which has seen yields drop around the world to near-record lows, and which has led some to ask if the bond market is the next financial bubble. "A bubble is a product of feedback from positive price changes that create a 'new era' ambience in which people think increasingly that prices will go up forever," Shiller told Zweig, adding that the bond market now "is just the opposite of a new-era ambience." Shiller told Zweig that instead, the demand for bonds is driven by "an underlying angst" about the future of the global economy.  "That’s not a bubble." You can — and should — read Zweig's full article over at The Wall Street Journal here. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople walk past the building of the bank Safra next to the Paradeplatz square in ZurichZURICH (Reuters) - The U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) is seeking "total cooperation" from Swiss banks in a draft agreement aimed at allowing the banks to make amends for aiding tax evasion by wealthy Americans, a Swiss newspaper reported on Saturday. About 100 Swiss banks signed up to work with U.S. authorities at the end of last year in a program brokered by the Swiss government. That followed criminal investigations of roughly a dozen Swiss banks in the United States. Under the program so-called category two banks - those that have reason to believe they may have committed tax offences - will escape prosecution if they detail their wrongdoing with U.S. clients and pay fines. These banks have now received a draft non-prosecution agreement from the United States, which would require them to report in full to U.S. authorities any information or knowledge of activity relating to U.S. tax, the Neue Zuercher Zeitung (NZZ) said, citing unnamed banking sources. These requirements would also apply to parent companies, subsidiaries, management, workers and external advisors, the NZZ reported. "This total cooperation would, in addition, not only apply with respect to the DOJ and the Internal Revenue Service, but also to anyone, even foreign law enforcement agencies, that the DOJ is supporting in its investigations," the NZZ reported. It said that no end date for this cooperation was given in the draft. It is also unclear whether the requested information would only need to be handed over when doing so complied with Swiss law, the paper said. Failure to follow any one of the terms of the agreement would render it void, and the bank could risk prosecution from the DOJ, the NZZ said. (Reporting by Alice Baghdjian; Editing by Aidan Martindale) FREE AppDownload
Ivivva on FacebookTeenage girls are increasingly wearing yoga pants instead of jeans.Lululemon's leggings are the hottest thing in teen retail right now.  "Leggings/lululemon" were named as the top fashion trend in Piper Jaffray's semi-annual Taking Stock With Teens survey.  More than a quarter of teen girls surveyed by Piper Jaffray named "Leggings/lululemon" as the top fashion trend. Other trends included crop tops (6%), high-waisted pants and skirts (6%), and Nike shoes (4%).  Piper Jaffray/Taking Stock With Teens Survey Teenagers are increasingly wearing yoga pants instead of jeans, Danielle McCoy, vice president of equity research at Wunderlich Securities, told Business Insider.  "We have seen denim spiraling downward from the premium denim players all the way to the teens, especially with the color trend disappearing," McCoy said. "The entire consumer industry has been shifting towards a more convenient and comfortable way of living."  While other brands like Victoria's Secret Pink and Forever 21 are offering yoga pants, teens see pricey Lululemon as the ultimate aspirational product, according to McCoy. The average pair of yoga pants costs $82.  Lululemon also has a plan to get younger customers hooked on its gear.  Ivivva Athletica, a brand for children and preteens, has been quietly spreading through the U.S. and Canada.  Facebook/Ivivva Avivva's leggings, which cost $64, are cheaper than Lululemon's.  Earlier this year, the brand announced that same-store sales had surged 17%.  FREE AppDownload
GT Advanced Technologies was trading above $20 per share not too long ago.  On Friday it closed at $0.81.  The stock was up about 300% in less than two-years and backed by a half billion dollar deal with Apple to provide Sapphire screens to the iPhone and iPad.Then news came out on September 9 that the new scratch resistant sapphire screens would not be a part of iPhone 6 and GT Advanced took a hit...The day before Apple announced the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus with glass screen covers, the CEO of GT Advanced Technologies sold $160,000 worth of his now-struggling company's stock, shares of which subsequently tanked due to the lack of a sapphire cover on the latest iPhones.Weeks later the firm declared bankruptcy and pretty much the entire world was "surprised." In fact, that's the exact word used by Apple itself in a Reuters article. Here's the thing though... That wasn't a surprise after the news on September 9.  But there was a surprise... it's that "no one" saw this coming.It's okay to lose money on an investment, it happens all the time. It's a part of risk taking.  But it's not okay to lose money for lack of knowledge, and I'm afraid that's what happened to some GT Advanced longs. Let me show you four charts that did NOT predict a bankruptcy, but DID predict an ENORMOUS risk in the firm if bad news came out. First we'll glance to the stock price return chart.So... that's what happened... Here's how the risk inherent in GT Advanced was absolutely explicit.RevenueThe firm saw revenue drop by 85% in three years and this information was known in August.Net Income The firm saw earnings collapse from a $200M profit to a $200M loss... and this information was known well before even August.Research &amp; Development over Total Revenue The firm went from spending $0.03 per dollar of revenue of R&amp;D to over $0.62.  GT Advanced was imploding as a going concern, but was making an enormous bet on new R&amp;D.  This information was known well before even August.Here's how revenue and R&amp;D look together in a time series. The risk is pretty obvious.R&amp;D vs. Stock PriceThe stock price was rising, not because people were stupid — no, not at all — it was rising due to the promise of R&amp;D return. The stock moved up as R&amp;D expense increased.There's nothing wrong with investing in this firm. It doesn't make you "wrong" for believing in the R&amp;D and the Apple deal. The equity price appreciated with the promise.But don't tell me that no one knew there was a risk of catastrophic proportions if the iPhone 6 announcement didn't go well. Knowledge is power.  Be Powerful. This article originally appeared at Capital Market Laboratories.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Be it because of a language barrier or just bad planning on the company's part, many people go around mispronouncing high-profile brand names.  Produced by Matthew Stuart and Alana Kakoyiannis. Follow BI Video : On YouTube
Thomson ReutersA Chinese national flag flutters in front of the headquarters of the People's Bank of China, China's central bank, in central BeijingBy David Brunnstrom WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The chance of a hard landing for China's economy is very small in spite of worries about the country's real-estate sector, the chief economist of the People's Bank of China said on Saturday. Ma Jun told a panel on the sidelines of the IMF and World Bank fall meetings in Washington that the property sector, which accounts for 20 percent of total investment in China, was the main downside risk to the Chinese economy. However, he said the sector was not the only driver of growth. "I think the chance of a hard landing is very low," Ma said. "Although we worry about some downside risk like the real-estate slowing down and so on, there are also growth engines, including the service sector in general, the Internet in particular ... and healthcare is rising very rapidly." Ma said the slowdown in real estate was putting downward pressure on the economy and some further deceleration in the sector was possible given weak public sales. He said leveraging in the real-estate sector, in state-owned enterprises and in local government financing vehicles was too high and had been rising in the past few years. This was a key reason for the government's policy of avoiding "excessive stimulus" to the economy. "At the macro level, I think we need to avoid excessive stimulus, which could increase leveraging significantly in the longer term, even though GDP growth is slowing a bit," he said. During a visit to Germany on Friday, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang said he was confident his country's economy would continue to grow at a "medium-to-high tempo", forecasting growth of about 7.5 percent this year. A Reuters poll of 20 economists on Friday, however, showed China's economy likely grew at its weakest pace in more than five years in the third quarter as the property downturn weighed on demand. According to the poll, the economy may have expanded 7.3 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, the weakest reading since the first quarter of 2009, when growth hit 6.6 percent. China's Vice Finance Minister Zhu Guangyao said on Friday that China was watching its property market closely but saw no need for any big stimulus for the sector or the rest of the economy, Zhu said a decline in property prices was not seen as a problem because prices previously had been too high and market forces should be allowed to prevail. Late last month, China cut mortgage rates and down payment levels for some home buyers for the first time since the 2008 global financial crisis, after home prices fell for a fourth consecutive month in August and new construction activity continued to slump.  (Reporting by David Brunnstrom; Editing by Paul Simao) FREE AppDownload
DashWe used Dash at Corsino in Manhattan.The most annoying thing about eating out or going to a bar is waiting for the check. That's why — after waiting for what seemed like an eternity for their check one New Year's Day — Jeff McGregor and Gennady Spirin founded Dash. It's an app that connects directly with a restaurant or bar's checkout program to get you squared away instantly. If you're at a participating restaurant — there are about 40 in NYC and 20 in Chicago — all you have to do is tell your waiter that you're using Dash. Then check in on the app. When you're done, you'll see your itemized check on the screen. Add the tip, and then with one touch you're done. The two Rutgers roommates launched the company back in 2011. At that time, mobile pay wasn't something restaurants were familiar with. They were concerned about how the app would function with their point of sales programs. "When we were selling to restaurants in 2011, it was totally different. Any restaurant we spoke to had no idea about mobile payments. It's been a complete 180," McGregor told Business Insider. Now, however, mobile payment has gotten all sorts of buzz (think: Uber, Apple Pay). Plus, bars especially like that with Dash, fewer customers skip out on tabs, or forget their cards and then cancel charges. "We see most of our success at high volume bars," said McGregor, admitting jokingly — "I hold the record for most credit cards left in NYC." Dash raised $750,000 back in 2013 with investments from the New York Angels and One Group CEO Jonathan Segal. Then the company raised another $1.2 million in February of this year. In that time Dash has gotten approval on one patent — for the technology that connects your phone to a point of sales program and splits a bill — and applied for three more. This is key, because they know the mobile payments space is heating up. It's obvious based on Dash's own sales transaction volume. The app's top venues are seeing 1,000 transactions a week and will process over 100,000 transactions in volume in a single venue this month. That's 200% month over month growth in aggregate transactional volume for 2014. This explosion mirrors the entire mobile payments market. Globally, mobile payments reached $256 billion in 2012, and are expected to increase to $796 billion by 2014, according to research from Bank Systems and Technology. So yes, the timing for this is pretty good. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toby MelvilleA racegoer checks his mobile phone on the second day of the Royal Ascot horse racing festival at Ascot, southern England on June 19, 2013.Even though everyone defines success differently, for most building wealth is an important factor. In How the Rich Get Rich I shared information gleaned from the 400 Individual Tax Returns Reporting the Largest Adjust Gross Incomes that showed how the top 400 earned their money in 2009. (To you and me 2009 was a long time ago but to the government is pretty up to date.) Of course information found on tax returns can be just one version of reality. A report compiled by the Spectrem Group on the 132,00 people in the U.S. with a net worth of over $25 million details how the wealthy say they made their money. So to what do they attribute their success? Obvious conclusions: Let's see: hard work. Education. Taking risks. Prudent spending. Being in the right place at the right time. Creating your own success. Sound like an entrepreneur? Sure does. FREE AppDownload
Luke MacGregor/ReutersA trader sits at his desk at IG Index in London September 9, 2014. For the American and British economies it has been a long road out of the woods, but the journey is nearing its end. America's unemployment rate fell below 6% in September. Britain's economy, where output was up 3.2% in the year to June, is growing faster than any other big rich country's. Central bankers are counting the days until they can raise interest rates. Virtually everywhere else, however, the news is grim and getting grimmer. The euro zone, the world's second-biggest economic area, seems to be falling from a feeble recovery back into outright recession as Germany hits the skids. Shockingly weak industrial production and export figures mean Germany's GDP is likely to shrink for the second consecutive quarter--a popular definition of recession. Japan, the world's third-biggest economy, may also be on the edge of a downturn, because April's rise in the consumption tax is hurting spending more than expected. Russia's and Brazil's economies are stagnant, at best. Even in China, still growing at a suspiciously smooth 7.5% a year, there are worries about a property bust, a credit bubble and a fall in productivity. Such a lopsided world economy is unlikely to be stable. Either the weakness outside the Anglo-Saxon world proves temporary, or it will spook financial markets and darken the outlook everywhere. The conventional view is that global growth will strengthen in 2015 as America's surge buoys other places, and as the recent weakness elsewhere proves temporary. The IMF reckons global growth will rise to 3.8% next year. This newspaper, however, is more worried on two counts. First, today's weakness, especially in the euro area, could last longer than investors expect; and second, the lopsided growth could itself fuel destabilizing shifts, particularly in the dollar. REUTERS/Eric VidalGermany's Angela Merkel.The euro area is in a far bigger mess than the headline figures suggest because its growth has long been flattered by Germany. Italy has been in recession for two years; France's economy has been stagnant for months. Now that Germany is in trouble, the chances of a Japan-style deflationary spiral have risen sharply. German policymakers remain pigheadedly opposed to the stimulus the euro area needs. Even as their own economy has stalled, they are determined to balance the budget in 2015. They want to force France to cut its deficit, they show little interest in a euro-wide investment scheme, and their opposition explains why the ECB is going so slowly with a bond-buying scheme to address deflation. The quantitative easing that markets expect is months off, if it happens at all. The euro zone's prospects are grimmest, but other weaklings are also a long way off recovery. In Japan, for instance, the economy is due to get clobbered by another rise in the consumption tax in October 2015. And with commodity prices falling and China slowing, it is hard to see how other emerging economies will accelerate, even if America is growing. Optimists see the stronger dollar as a simple means to export America's recovery elsewhere; but that too is more complicated than it first looks. The greenback is certainly on the rise, fuelled by faster growth and the prospects of tighter monetary policy from the Fed. On a trade-weighted basis, it is up 6.3% since July, and is at a six-year high against the yen and two-year high against the euro. It looks likely to go higher: dollar surges tend to stretch over several years. This should be good news for the weaklings: their exporters will get more competitive, while pricier imports will ward off deflation. But it could also bring risks. Currencies have a tendency to overshoot. Firms and governments that have borrowed in dollars in recent years will have to pay more. Dollar borrowing by emerging-market firms has risen dramatically since 2008, to an estimated 70% of total bond issuance. And the temporary boost from a cheaper currency could provide the likes of France, Italy and Brazil (and increasingly Germany) yet another excuse to put off structural reform. The prescription for the weaklings is simple: heal thyself. Rather than waiting for America to solve their problems, the laggards should treat the recent spate of bad news as a wake-up call. The ECB should start bond-buying forthwith. The Japanese government should delay the rise in the consumption tax until the economy recovers. Countries that can afford it, notably Germany, should invest in infrastructure. And even America and Britain should be wary, especially over tightening monetary policy too quickly. There is a lot that can go wrong--and they don't want to be dragged back into those woods again. Click here to subscribe to The Economist FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Catalin VossCatalin Voss developed a Google Glass app that helps people with Autism recognize facial expressions.Stanford is easily considered the best college in the west. It's also the best in the country, taking the No. 1 spot on our list of the Best Colleges in America this year. Known in particular for its exceptional computer science and engineering programs, Stanford is an active hub for talented and impressive students in all fields, from art to tech to business. We've profiled 15 incredibly impressive undergrads at this top "dream college". They're starring in feature films, playing with the U.S. National Soccer Team, teaching kids to code, and a whole lot more. FREE AppDownload
NASA The world is getting warmer and that's already causing disasters that will devastate lives and cost hundreds of billions of dollars. Those problems are only getting worse, as shown by recent reports from the United Nation's Intergovernmental Panel On Climate Change (IPCC) and the White House, among others. The greenhouse gas emissions that drive warming "now substantially exceed the highest concentrations recorded in ice cores during the past 800,000 years," the IPCC said. Atmospheric carbon dioxide levels, which primarily come from the burning of fossil fuels, have risen 40% since preindustrial times. Last month, world leaders convened at the UN Climate Summit 2014 to discuss plans to reduce carbon emissions — though there were some notable absences. Most attendees recognized that failure to address these issues could spell terrible consequences for people all over the world. We've gathered some of those terrible consequences of climate change below. Unless otherwise noted, each effect assumes a temperature rise of 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 F) by 2100, a number the IPCC has suggested we are "more likely than not" to exceed, and a sea level rise of 0.5 meters (1.5 feet) by 2100, about the average of all the IPCC's most recent climate scenarios. This is a conservative estimate — other studies predict significantly more sea level rise. Asset destruction, forced relocations, droughts, extinctions, and all of the other bad things we're going to discuss will add up in costs to the global economy. Already the Natural Resources Defense Council estimates that the US Climate Disruption Budget — i.e., stuff related to drought, storms, and growing climate disruptions — was nearly $100 billion. And that's just the start. By 2030, climate change costs are projected to cost the global economy $700 billion annually, according to the Climate Vulnerability Monitor. As climate change continues, costs will go up. Indeed, the release of a 50-billion-ton reservoir of methane from melting Arctic ice, which may advance global warming by 15-to-35 years, could by itself cost $60 trillion to the global economy, researchers told Nature last summer. Stopping the damage won't be cheap either. For instance, putting the world on a path for sustainable energy production will cost $53 trillion, according to the International Energy Agency's World Energy Investment Outlook. But in the long run, these investments could wind up saving money, says a new report from The Global Commission on the Economy and Climate. By spending money now on measures like green infrastructure, governments can save themselves the money that would otherwise be spent on damages caused by climate change in the future. International Displacement Monitering Centre"98% of all displacement in 2012 was related to climate- and weather-related events," according to the Internal Displacement Monitoring Center. Climate change may become the biggest driver of displaced people, according to António Guterres, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. In 2008, 36 million people were displaced by natural disasters. At least 20 million of those people were driven from their homes by disasters related to climate change, like drought and rising sea level, Guterres said. He anticipates that countries in the Southern Hemisphere will be most affected by displacement in the future. If this happens, "not only states, but cultures and identities will be drowned," Guterres said at a 2009 conference. The Internal Organization for Migration estimates that 200 million people by 2050 could be forced to leave due to environmental changes. Even more alarming, a 2014 study published in Environmental Research Letters predicted that sea level rise created by a temperature increase of 3 degrees C would force more than than 600 million people to find new homes. CDCThe deadliest vector-borne disease is malaria, claiming 627,000 lives in 2012. (A vector-borne disease is one carried from one person to another through a third organism, like a blood-sucking bug). "However, the world's fastest growing vector-borne disease is dengue, with a 30-fold increase in disease incidence over the last 50 years," the World Health Organization wrote. As summers become longer, temperatures go up, and rainfall patterns change along with species patterns. Mosquitoes carrying diseases will likely have a longer season in a wider area, according to the Natural Resources Defense Council. "The same is true on a global scale: increases in heat, precipitation, and humidity can allow tropical and subtropical insects to move from regions where infectious diseases thrive into new places," they wrote. Increases in international travel, "means that the U.S. is increasingly at risk for becoming home to these new diseases." Without proper management, waterborne diseases could also spread as floods become more common. Floodwaters can contain disease-causing bacteria or viruses, including noroviruses and enteroviruses. Wikimedia Commons/David S. RobertsFires burn east of San Diego in 2007.  For each one degree Celsius of warming, the area burned by western wildfires will increase by a factor of two to four, according to a report by the National Academy of Sciences. Temperatures in the Southwest have increased by more than one degree Celsius since the 1970s, according to the National Climate Assessment. The major fire increases will occur in the northern Great Plains, the Rocky Mountains, and the Southwest, according to a 2012 report for firescience.gov. The fire season could also become several months longer. California Department of Water ResourcesThe California water crisis, in one photo. In 2013, about 1.3 billion people lived in water-scarce regions, according to one study. The researchers calculated that an additional 8% of the population would enter a state of "new or aggravated water scarcity" solely due to climate change with a temperature increase of 2 degrees C by 2100. The National Climate Assessment detailed some of our nation's record-breaking droughts. In 2011, Texas and Oklahoma saw more than 100 days over almost 28 degrees C and also set records for the hottest summer since 1895, when people began keeping reliable climate records. "Rates of water loss, due in part to evaporation, were double the long-term average. The heat and drought depleted water resources and contributed to more than $10 billion in direct losses to agriculture alone," said the Assessment. When parched areas do get rain, it does not necessarily make it into groundwater supplies since dry ground is not good at absorbing water, according to the convention report. While some places are becoming drier, others are in danger of serious floods (see 8 and 13). NOAA NCDCThe primary billion-dollar disaster for coastal states is hurricanes. Northern and interior states are hit mostly by winter storms and tornadoes, said NOAA.The recent National Climate Assessment found that Category 4 and 5 hurricanes (the strongest) have increased in frequency, intensity, and duration since the 1980s. It's not yet clear how much can be attributed to human or natural causes but scientists said the "the trend is projected to continue," and that climate change is not going to help the situation moving forward. One of the factors responsible for this increase in hurricane intensity is warmer waters, which make great fuel for storms. "Hurricanes tend to be self-limiting, in that they churn up deeper (usually cooler) water that can stop them from gaining strength and also weaken them. So since global warming also warms the deeper ocean, it further helps hurricanes stay stronger longer,"according to climate writer Joseph Romm. One model predicts up to an 11% increase in hurricane intensity, as well as about a 20% rain increase within about a 60-mile radius of the storm's center (these numbers are based on a climate scenario with an average of 2.8 degree Celsius warming). Climate.gov One day, New York City may have flood days the way it has snow days, Malcolm Bowman, oceanography professor at Stony Brook University in Long Island, warned on WNYC. The graphic above shows what the Federal Emergency Management Agency flood zone might look like should extreme sea level rise occur (2.5 feet or about 0.8 meters by 2050). "Areas in the 100-year flood zone have a 1 percent chance of being flooded annually and are particularly vulnerable to rising sea levels," NOAA said. This zone includes several areas devastated by Hurricane Sandy, including the Brooklyn-Queens Waterfront, the East and South Shores of Staten Island, South Queens, Southern Brooklyn, and Southern Manhattan. NOAAHigher sea levels mean higher tides and surges.   Since the mid-1800s, the chances of storm tide over-topping the Manhattan sea wall have increased 20%, according to one recent study, as storm water levels have risen. The researchers expect the seawall to be submerged about once every four to five years. In the 19th century, that only happened once every 100 to 400 years. "What we are finding is that the 10-year storm tide of your great-, great-grandparents is not the same as the 10-year storm tide of today," the lead author of the study said in the press release. Assuming a sea-level rise of .5 meters by 2070, with an extra .5 to 1.5 meters to account for storms, a 2008 study ranked the most exposed cities in the world. The analysis found staggering potential losses in cities around the world. Calcutta, India, may be the most exposed, with 14 million people and $2 trillion in assets at risk. Miami is also in big trouble with 4.8 million people and $3.5 trillion at risk. If global temperatures rise one degree C, more than 40 of the more than 700 UN world heritage sites will be seriously threatened by water within the next 2,000 years, according to a study published in Environmental Research Letters. If temperatures rise 3 degrees C, that number rises to 136 sites. Historical city centers like Venice, Istanbul, and St. Petersburg would be among those impacted. "Loss of cultural world heritage and currently inhabited places to sea-level rise," by Ben Marzeion and Anders LevermannThe rainbow scale labeled <U+0394>T, refers to a rise in degree Celsius. The open black circles are the sites which have already been impacted today <U+0394>T = .8. While warming temperatures might initially help certain crops, the overall picture is negative. Global crop yields are slowing down as a result of events related to climate change, like reduced rainfall and higher temperatures. Wheat and maize have already been negatively affected in certain regions, as shown in the chart below. The IPCC points out several scenarios in which food and cereal prices have rapidly increased following extreme weather events since their last report in 2007. The new report predicts continued drops in global wheat and maize production, which could lead to food scarcity and political unrest. IPCC Low-lying islands in the tropics are particularly vulnerable to sea-level rise. "It has been suggested that the very existence of some atoll nations is threatened by rising sea levels associated with global warming," the IPCC said. Out of the 10 nations rated with the highest protection cost compared to their GDP, eight were island nations, according to the IPCC. Some of the threats to these islands are less obvious such as "airborne dust from the Sahara and Asia, distant source ocean swells from mid high latitudes, invasive plant and animal species and the spread of aquatic pathogens," the report said. Sea-level rise leads to flooding, stronger storm surge, and erosion, which can cause even more damage to small islands and coastal regions. Climate change will also hurt fisheries, agriculture, and tourism in these regions. In September, Baron Waqa — chair of the Alliance of Small Island States and president of Nauru — presented an address at the 2014 UN Climate Summit in which he reiterated, "No one better understands the grave risks posed by climate change than SIDS [Small Island Developing States]. Climate change and sea level rise are already threatening our viability and even our existence as sovereign nations." NOAA Coral Reef Ecosystem Division When reefs die ...Climate change creates unfavorable conditions for the survival of coral reefs. If global and local reef threats continue, including those related to climate change, all reefs could be at risk of disappearing by 2050, according to the key findings of the World Resources Institute. Rising ocean acidity created by higher carbon dioxide levels means fewer carbonate ions, a key ingredient for coral skeleton building. Since preindustrial times, ocean carbonate levels have dropped by 25% according to the report. "Corals cannot survive more than a 2 degree global average temperature increase over pre-industrial levels before coral is no longer able to replace itself faster than coral bleaching will destroy it," the report said. Temperatures are expected to rise at least that much by 2100. IPCC The Physical BasicsWelcome to our warming world. Losing the reefs will also take a major toll on tourism and industry, according to the World Wildlife Fund and Earth Hour report. Coral reefs provide tourism-related income to at least 94 countries, according to the World Resources Institute. Australia faces losses of up to $6 billion and over 63,000 jobs, from Great Barrier Reef damage. Seventy percent of the 27 countries and territories most vulnerable to reef damage are small-island states. The nine countries most vulnerable to reef degradation, including Haiti and Fiji, are very dependent on the reefs and "have limited capacity to adapt to reef loss," wrote the World Resources Institute. Besides being biodiversity hotspots and holding potentials for medicine, coral reefs act as a buffer to storms and erosion. One-hundred countries could lose coastal protection along almost 100,000 miles of shoreline, according to the World Resources Institute. Corals aren't the only organisms that suffer from ocean acidification. Other animals, such as mollusks, sea urchins, and some types of plankton are also expected to suffer as the ocean's pH drops. Many of these species are crucial to the marine ecosystem, providing an important food source for larger organisms. Their decline has the potential to cause a shift in the entire marine food web.IPCC NOAA State Of The Coast"Along the Northern Gulf Coast, an estimated 2,400 miles of major roadway and 246 miles of freight rail lines are at risk of permanent flooding within 50 to 100 years as relative sea level is expected to rise in the range of 4 feet," according to NOAA. Since 1993, mean world sea level rise has gone up between 0.11 to 0.14 inches a year, according to NOAA. As this trend continues, coastal areas of the world will be inundated with water. This is especially disconcerting considering nearly 40% of people in the US live in these coastal areas. Eight out of the 10 largest cities in the world are near the coast. (The percentages above are based on a New York Times interactive, which used a 5-foot sea level rise, a number that is expected to occur within 300 years.) Using daily precipitation data from 28 models, a 2014 study published in the journal Nature projected the frequency of dry days around the world. It found that the Mediterranean Sea region, parts of Central and South America, and western Indonesia would suffer greatly, with up to 30 extra dry days a year compared to the 1960 to 1989 average by the end of the century. "Short-term (seasonal or shorter) droughts are expected to intensify in most U.S. regions. Longer-term droughts are expected to intensify in large areas of the Southwest, southern Great Plains, and Southeast," according to the National Climate Assessment. Droughts could pose a variety of threats, the IPCC said. In areas of higher drought, water stores will not be replenished and water pollutant concentrations could rise. "Climate change is projected to reduce raw water quality and pose risks to drinking water quality even with conventional treatment."U.S. Drought MonitorThis month, nearly 15% of the country was in extreme drought, according to NOAA. As temperature rises, many of our current wine producing regions will become unsuitable for vineyards. The number above uses a 1.8 degree C warming and is from a 2012 study in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Problems could be compounded as owners relocate their vineyards to higher elevations — an ecosystem destroying process. Establishing a vineyard requires "removal of native vegetation, typically followed by deep plowing, fumigation with methyl bromide or other soil-sterilizing chemicals, and the application of fertilizers and fungicides," said the study. Since "[v]iticulture is famously sensitive to climate," the study said, it "may be illustrative of conservation implications of shifts in other agricultural crops." While not all agree with the percentages above, scientists have shown repeatedly that climate change will cause a variety of habitats to become unsuitable for their current inhabitants. This will send many plants and animals in search of new homes, invading those of others. Wikimedia/The Canadian Organization for Tropical Education and Rainforest Conservation (COTERC)He may soon have way more sisters than he bargained for.Because many reptiles rely on ambient temperatures to regulate physiological processes, they will be directly affected by global temperature change. For turtles, nest temperature determines the sex of the offspring. A cooler nest hatches only males while a warmer nest is all females. Changes in sex ratio could affect the potential to produce offspring as well as the evolutionary fitness of the species, according to the Forest Service — both factors which do not bode well for the survival of the reptiles. One study in the Cape Verde Islands found that as rising temperatures heated sands in which sea turtles laid their eggs, the nest produced more females. While this may lead to an initial increase in population, 100 years in the future it could spell disaster, study author Graeme Hays told The Guardian. "You have so few males left that it's likely to be a problem. There will be heaps of female but not enough males to fertilize all those eggs," he said. Animals with similar problems could include other turtles, alligators, crocodiles, and some lizards. NASA Earth ObservatoryThis map compares the summer thunderstorm potential change from 1962-1989 with 2073-2099.One study found that when greenhouse gases increased, conditions prime for intense thunderstorms in the eastern and southern US also increased. Other climate studies have suggested there will be "robust increases in the occurrence of severe thunderstorm environments" in the eastern US, often occurring before the 2 degrees C global warming baseline. One key factor that fuels thunderstorm formation is how much "raw energy" — called convective available potential energy, or CAPE — is available. CAPE is affected by how much heat and moisture is in the air, as well as that air's tendency to rise, explains NASA's Earth Observatory. "CAPE can provide storms with the raw fuel to produce rain and hail, and vertical wind shear can pull and twist weak storms into strong, windy ones," meteorologist Harold Brooks of NOAA's National Severe Storms Laboratory told the Earth Observatory. Signs indicate that CAPE will be increasing as the climate warms. USGSWhat it looks like when a glacier dies. More than 1 billion people worldwide rely on glaciers and snow for freshwater as they melt, according to the IPCC. When glaciers are in equilibrium with the climate, they act as valuable and stable sources of freshwater for many regions including the Andes, Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru, and parts of India and China. They store water during cold or wet years and release it during warm years as they melt. "As glaciers shrink, however, their diminishing influence may make the water supply less dependable," the report said. Because glaciers are currently out of equilibrium, "total meltwater yields from stored glacier ice will increase in many regions during the next decades but decrease thereafter," the IPCC said. This can lead to floods in the immediate future but result in a lack of meltwater in the long term. Adverse conditions associated with a changing climate could worsen Southern California's air quality, the state's clean air progress report suggested. "The higher number of extreme heat days and heat waves predicted to occur as a result of climate change will increase smog formation, increase the number and severity of wildfires, worsen heat island effects in urban areas, and increase adverse health effects due to the public's increased exposure to harmful air pollutants," the report said. Air pollution has been linked to a to a long list of health ailments, including asthma, heart and lung damage, respiratory and cardiovascular diseases, and heatstroke, the report noted. Fine particulate matter is the "greatest risk to public health." This pollutant has been linked to heart disease, premature mortality and perhaps even diabetes, autism, and cognitive impairment. When the IPCC modeled about 1,000 marine species, it found almost a 50% decrease in catch in certain areas by 2060, using a scenario with an estimated 2.8 degree C temperature change. These analyses were made without even considering ocean acidification or overfishing. IPCC One strange consequence of climate change is an increase in mental illnesses like depression and anxiety. In a study published by the Journal of the American Medical Association, researchers found that climate-caused disasters, such as floods, storms, and wildfires, can increase human anxiety and despair. Such events can even cause post-traumatic stress disorder in some people. Danielle Byerly, University of FloridaAn artist's rendering of the early horse Hyracotherium (right) alongside a modern-day horse. Researchers found that Hyracotherium body size decreased 19% during a global warming event about 53 million years ago.Fossil evidence tells us that when the planet was last at its warmest — about 55 million years ago during the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum — many animals got smaller. For example: One horse, Hyracotherium, usually the size of a small dog, shrunk in size by 30%. The horse returned to its normal size when the temperature went back down. But 2 million years later, during another smaller global warming event, Hyracotherium shrunk by 19%. "The fact that it happened twice significantly increases our confidence that we're seeing cause and effect," said University of Michigan Paleontologist Philip Gingerich, who presented his preliminary findings at the end of 2013. Past global warming, he said, appears to have caused many mammals to shrink. Scientists are now starting to see history repeat itself. Studies have shown that many animals, including polar bears and some reptiles, have started shrinking as carbon dioxide levels increase. While over-exploitation and habitat destruction are the major threats to most species today, many experts agree that climate change will be the greatest cause of declines and extinctions in the future. A study published last year in the journal Nature Climate Change projected that half of all plants and a third of animals will lose more than 50% of their current range by 2080. As a result, the researchers predicted a "substantial reduction in biodiversity" by the end of the century. A report from the World Food Program expects extreme weather events like floods, droughts, forest fires, and tropical cyclones to damage farmlands, threatening food security for millions of people. Climate impacts on crop yields will increase the number of malnourished children by around 11 million in Asia, 10 million in Africa, and 1.4 million in Latin America, the report said. By 2050, crop yields in Asia are expected to fall by 50% for wheat and 17% for rice compared to 2000 levels, according to the report. This will threaten billions of people who rely on agriculture for their livelihoods. FREE AppDownload
Chris Hondros/GettyGoldman Sachs: Where the elite go to get paid.The investment bank Goldman Sachs is one of the most elite institutions on earth.  And most reviled. "'I'm going to Goldman,' is still about as close as it gets in the real world to 'I'm going to Harvard,'" said Michael Lewis, the firebrand financial writer.  The prestige comes with outrageous dollar signs — think "better than half a million dollars in annual compensation, per worker," if you take Businessweek's word for it.  Still, what do you earn if you're not at the top of the Goldman pile? If you're in the middle? Or even at the bottom? With those queries in mind, we sifted through Glassdoor's generous list of collected salaries to provide a glimpse into the pay for Goldman's 32,000 employees. One caveat: this list does not include bonuses, which are notoriously high on Wall Street. In the case of Goldman, the averages range from $8,630 for an operations analyst to $90,512 for a vice president to $8.25 million for a top trader.  According to Glassdoor, here are the average salaries for 15 positions at Goldman Sachs, in ascending order:  FREE AppDownload
Olivier Blanchard, chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, has identified three major risks faced by the global economy. They are, in his words, low interest rates, war, and Europe: 1. "The long period of low interest rates has led to some search for yield, and financial markets may be too complacent about the future ... Macro prudential tools are the right instruments, but one has to worry that they may not be up to the task." In other words, investors have ended up in some pretty risky positions that will hurt them if the interest rate environment changes or if the world sinks back into a full-fledged recession. Here's a chart showing how money going into risky bonds has again surpassed that going into safer vehicles: Citi2. "Geopolitical risks have become more relevant. So far, there is little evidence that Ukraine crisis has had measurable effects beyond the affected countries and their immediate neighbors. Nor has turmoil in the Middle East affected either the level or the volatility of energy prices very much. But, clearly, the risk that they do so in the future is there, and could affect the world economy in a major way." REUTERS/Ako RasheedIslamic State flags flutter on the Mullah Abdullah bridge in southern Kirkuk on Sept. 29. Members of the Kurdish security forces and the Islamic State are holding fort behind sandbags on different ends of the bridge. 3. "The third risk is a stalling of the recovery in the euro area, the risk that demand weakens further, and that low inflation turns into deflation. This is not our baseline, as we believe fundamentals are slowly improving, but, were it to happen, it would clearly be the major issue confronting the world economy." Euro Area GDP 1995-2014: ECB FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Harrison JacobsDumpster diver Robert Hernandez looks through garbage bags outside of the Starbucks at Court and Joralemon streets in Brooklyn, New York. “I had my qualms about diving, but once I got started, I knew I would never stop,” Robert Hernandez tells me before pulling a heavy black garbage bag up from the street curb. We’re in downtown Brooklyn, New York, in front of a Key Foods grocery store, and Hernandez is just getting started for the night. A lifetime resident of the borough, Hernandez is middle-aged and Hispanic, and tonight he wears a baseball cap with the words “Never Give Up” emblazoned along the top. He’s offered to take me and Yana Maximova, a Portland, Oregon-based journalist, dumpster diving. In the US, 133 billion pounds of uneaten food — nearly one-third of all the food America produces — are tossed in the garbage every year. Dumpster diving is the practice of looking through commercial or residential waste to recover some of that thrown-away food (and other items). It is the literal equivalent of the expression "one man's trash is another man's treasure."  Just a year ago, Hernandez was frequenting the supermarkets in downtown Brooklyn as a customer. Every so often he’d see perfectly good food wasting away near the dumpster and would be tempted to grab it. It wasn't until a new roommate told him about dumpster diving and encouraged him to attend a monthly dumpster-diving group that he realized it was a viable practice. A group of "freegans," people who forage for discarded food as part of a larger anticonsumerist ideology, led Hernandez on a trash tour. During the nighttime walk, he saw what neighborhood grocery stores like Trader Joe’s, Garden of Eden, and Perelandra Natural Foods were leaving behind every day.  He was stunned. “We have so many people starving in this country and then you head to the supermarkets and you see all this waste," Hernandez says. "It makes no sense.” Hernandez now makes the rounds of downtown Brooklyn's grocery stores twice a week to pick through what they leave behind, which according to him, is bountiful. The legal situation around dumpster diving is murky and depends on the city you're in. If you get caught in New York, what happens more or less depends on the attitude of the police officer. If you're looking through a dumpster and a cop is having a bad day, or a store owner complains, you can be booked for trespassing, littering, or disorderly conduct. But most of the time the police and store owners don't get involved, as long as you are clean and don’t make a ruckus. It’s only a mildly risky endeavor. Business Insider/Harrison JacobsHernandez looks through the bags in front of Key Foods. Maximova and Hernandez take to the garbage bags with gusto, stepping right into the pile, untying the first ones they grab, and sticking their hands and a flashlight inside. Maximova has been dumpster diving since she moved to the US from St. Petersburg, Russia, five years ago. In that time, she has fed herself almost completely from food she finds. She tells me proudly that she even catered her entire wedding in Pennsylvania using dumpstered food. I am more apprehensive about the idea. It’s not that I have any problem with garbage — a job at a swim-and-tennis club in my teenage years ensured I did my fair share of handling nasty garbage — but I am more skeptical that I am going to find anything of use. I have distinct memories of handling hot, sticky garbage bags filled with unidentifiable garbage juice. There was never anything remotely appetizing. Business Insider/Harrison JacobsThe Key Foods in Downtown Brooklyn. Nonetheless, I get into the pile and untie a bag. All I find is soggy cardboard and some mushy peaches. I’m starting to think this adventure might be a bust.  “Look for the heavy ones,” Maximova says. “They usually have the best stuff.” She pulls out a heavy, half-empty bag and unties it. Inside is the first find of the day: no fewer than 30 containers of various flavored yogurts from Fage, Chobani, and a small organic company I’ve never heard of. Business Insider/Harrison JacobsThe first find of the evening. I rush over in amazement. A few customers cycle out of the store and look confusedly at us. We take turns pulling out the yogurt containers and wiping them off to place in a box. I look at the expiration date: more than two weeks away. Why the yogurt is being thrown away is a mystery, but I have a hunch. Most Americans have little idea what expiration dates, sell-by dates, and best-by dates really mean. Many tend to use these dates as deadlines for when to use or buy products, despite the fact that they mostly indicate guidelines for stores. Often, as stores get new shipments of food to place on the shelves, older — but still fresh — food with approaching expiration dates gets replaced in favor of new inventory. The old inventory gets discarded, despite being perfectly good. Emboldened by the yogurt find, we keep searching through the bags, but Hernandez has gone through seven or eight with no luck and loses interest. I find a bundle of grapes and a package of Brussels sprouts, but we decide to leave those behind. It's here that I learn a counterintuitive rule about dumpster diving: Divers are picky about what they keep. Because there is so much good food thrown away every day there is a garbage pickup (three times or more per week), the question quickly evolves from “what will we find?” to “what do we want to take?” Instead of sticking around at Key Foods to look through every last bit of trash, we head to Garden of Eden, a high-end organic market a few blocks away. There we encounter another hazard of dumpster diving: garbage trucks. Dumpster divers hunt during a small window of time, between when stores put out their garbage (usually when they close) and when the garbage trucks pick it up, usually within an hour or two. This can make dumpster diving a race. Business Insider/Harrison JacobsDumpster diving is often a race against the garbage trucks. At Garden of Eden, a garbage truck is busy emptying out a dumpster across the street, and it will be soon moving onto the Eden dumpster. We start looking through the dumpster quickly, and the garbage men don’t seem to mind. The Eden dumpster is overflowing with clear bags, which makes the process easier because you can see what’s inside and how salvageable it is. The only issue is that, because there are so many bags over the lip of the dumpster, it is hard to see what could be hiding underneath. Business Insider/Harrison JacobsThe dumpster in front of Garden of Eden. Within seconds, I find a large bag filled with breads of many different shapes, sizes, and types. From the other side of the dumpster, I hear that Maximova has found tons of produce and Hernandez has found some donuts. I sort through my bag. The bread is still fresh, and I reason that it will probably last a week or more and take out several rolls and a loaf of ciabatta. Business Insider/Harrison JacobsBags of still-fresh bread at Garden of Eden. I go over to have a look at Maximova’s find. There are multiple bags filled with hundreds of ripe plums and nectarines. She starts pulling them out four at a time and I have to stop her because there is no way that she or I or Hernandez will be able to eat all of it before it goes bad. Business Insider/Harrison Jacobs Not everything is good. There is a bag of mutilated avocados that look more like dirty guacamole than fruit. When I find a bag of potatoes and yams, I have to feel through for ones that aren’t damp. The general warm, wet temperature inside the bag is off-putting and I only take two sweet potatoes. Despite the disappointments, we’ve gotten quite a bit from this dumpster and we decide to move on. Business Insider/Harrison Jacobs We head off to Starbucks and Hernandez tells me that in the 1980s, he used to work at the American Stock Exchange as a data clerk. While the work was satisfying, he couldn’t stand the culture on Wall Street and he grew disillusioned with capitalism as a system. "The money was good, but I couldn't stand to see the greed that people sold their souls for," says Hernandez. "It felt shameful."   The critique of capitalism is common among “freegans,”  who try to opt out as much as possible from American consumerist culture. For freegans, the juxtaposition between the sheer volume of good food in America that goes into the dumpster and the 17.5 million households in America that are food insecure epitomizes the wastefulness inherent in American society today. “We’re killing the Earth by throwing away good food. It could be going to food banks, pantries, or churches. But instead it just gets thrown in a landfill,” says Hernandez. Business Insider/Harrison Jacobs Over the course of the night, we visit three Starbucks, all within a few blocks of each other. All three have bulging trash piles, but most of the bags have wet coffee grinds in them, rendering whatever else is in there useless. This is another problem for divers: sabotage, both intentional and unintentional. According to Hernandez, some stores, to dissuade divers from going through their garbage, will intentionally mix good food with liquids, coffee grounds, or other contaminating trash, essentially destroying it. At the last Starbucks, we hit the jackpot — a clear garbage bag filled with the day’s unsold pastries and sandwiches. Inside are rolls, croissants, cake pops, pecan pies, brownies, scones, flatbread chicken sandwiches, egg salad, etc. The expiration dates range from a day or two away to a week. I bite into a croissant. It tastes as good as any I’ve paid for.  Business Insider/Harrison JacobsThe findings at Starbucks. “All we ask is that you clean up after yourselves,” she says. “Otherwise we get fined.” Dumpster-diving etiquette dictates that divers untie and retie garbage bags, stack the bags the way they found them, and avoid leaving litter lying around the area. Most, but not all, divers abide by this.  On our way out from Starbucks, Hernandez shakes hands with a tall, heavy-set man, who tells him that the Trader Joe’s dumpsters are now out. Hernandez thanks him and we keep walking. Hernandez tells us the man is homeless, one of the many he has made a point to talk to and show how to dumpster dive. “It’s about extending a hand to humanity,” says Hernandez.  As if on cue, we pass a shivering homeless man on the street. He is covered in a torn, bright blue windbreaker and has a scraggly blond beard. His face is whittled down. All three of us stop. Hernandez walks up to the man and asks him if he’d like something to eat. He opens the bag of Starbucks sandwiches and tells him to take as many as he’d like. The man takes an egg-salad sandwich but refuses to take more, despite Maximova's insistence. He thanks us repeatedly. The homeless man seems overwhelmed by the generosity. The incident brings up another interesting wrinkle: Most homeless people won’t go into the dumpsters. Both Maximova and Hernandez have tried to feed homeless people with their dumpstered findings — which they eat themselves — and have been repeatedly denied. Only rarely do homeless people take them up on the offer. “It’s all about people’s perceptions,” says Hernandez. “Everyone is so brainwashed that food has to come from the store shelves, that it has to have a far-off expiration date.” Business Insider/Harrison JacobsTrader Joe's in Downtown Brooklyn. We head to the evening's grand finale: Trader Joe's. The chain is considered something of a mecca for dumpster divers all over the country. The stores are so large and throw out so much food that every day the dumpsters are put out, you can guarantee that you will find good food. Add in that so many of Trader Joe’s products — from meat to vegetables, fruit, cookies, and salad — are packaged, and you can see why its a diver’s paradise. Harrison Jacobs/Business InsiderThe dumpsters in front of Trader Joe's. In front of Trader Joe’s are no fewer than 10 dumpsters, all filled with bags, most of which have usable food inside. On some nights, Hernandez tells me, the scene at Joe’s can become competitive, as divers from all over the city converge to pick through the findings. On those nights, Hernandez prefers to wait out “the wolves,” as he calls them, because he believes the competition is not in the spirit of freeganism, which is about community and sharing.  In quick succession, we find a dumpster filled with egg cartons, Brie, organic chicken, hummus, salad packages, squash, and pita bread. All of it is still fresh, and sell-by dates aren't even close. There’s another dumpster filled with packages of tilapia, but fish seems a little too risky for me to take. Maximova confirms this suspicion, telling me to be very careful with meat and fish. Any packages that have bulging plastic, look swollen, or smell funky should be avoided, she says. It isn’t long before we’ve filled up the shopping bags we have on us, and we’ve barely gone through four dumpsters. Harrison Jacobs/Business Insider “I have no idea why they throw these things out,” Hernandez says. “I don’t know what their standards are. If I knew, maybe I’d understand why so much goes to waste.” I thank Hernandez for taking Maximova and me out for the tour. He reminds me not to eat anything before washing it, a cardinal rule of dumpster diving.   
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.NEW YORK (Reuters) - Volatility has suddenly returned to U.S. stocks, and for the first time all year it doesn't appear that the weakness in equities will go away quietly in the span of a few days. While the S&amp;P 500 is still up 3.1 percent for the year, the index is off about 5 percent from its record high reached in mid-September, and closed out this week at the lowest level since May 23. "We're still in a bull market, but in the near term things are a little bit dicey, and I don't think the decline is over with yet," said Jeffrey Saut, chief investment strategist at Raymond James Financial in St. Petersburg, Florida. The S&amp;P 500 and Nasdaq posted their biggest weekly declines since May 2012, and the Dow Jones industrial average ended Friday in negative territory for the year. The S&amp;P also posted back-to-back intraday moves of more than 40 points this week for the first time in three years. Wall Street's fear gauge, the CBOE Volatility Index &lt;.VIX&gt;, ended at 21.24 on Friday, its highest level since early February. Investors said they were concerned about the eventual end of Federal Reserve stimulus, as well as weak growth overseas and its potential effect on U.S. earnings. The slide in oil prices has also served as a harbinger for poor demand, and investors in general got caught betting heavily on further market gains at a time when this stew boiled over. The volatility recalls the last major period of big market gyrations in the second half of 2011, when the first-ever credit downgrade of the United States and the threat of a debt default kept investors on their toes for several months. It is unclear whether the current turmoil will last as long. "What is interesting about what is going on is that you have several themes all feeding into the same action, and that action is to mitigate risk," said Peter Kenny, chief market strategist of Clearpool Group in New York.   DEFENSIVE PLAYS The only S&amp;P 500 sectors to gain since the market's Sept. 18 high are defensive - utilities and consumer staples. This week also saw the biggest weekly inflow on record to U.S. taxable bond funds, while nearly $7 billion left stock funds. One sign that investors anticipate more volatility has been in the options market, where volumes have increased sharply. Friday marked the busiest day in the options market since June 2013, with options volume totaling 27.2 million contracts, according to options analytics firm Trade Alert. In addition, the CBOE Volatility Index is trading higher than monthly VIX futures contracts between now and May 2015, a sign of worry about near-term ups and downs in the market. "Just look at options volume versus stocks volume over the past three to six months," said Tim Biggam, lead option strategist at online brokerage TradingBlock. "Options volume has been nothing but growing and stock volume has been sort of petering out. A lot of the big players are pre-positioning with options." Growing worry over Europe and other overseas economies has money managers concerned about earnings season. The next two weeks bring a slew of U.S. corporate results, including from S&amp;P 500 companies with some of the highest levels of sales abroad, such as chip maker Intel Corp &lt;intc.o&gt;. A disappointing outlook from Microchip Technology &lt;mchp.o&gt; late Thursday has put a negative spin on the chip sector's outlook. The PHLX semiconductor index &lt;.SOX&gt; saw its largest daily percentage decline since January 2009, ending down 6.9 percent on Friday. It lost as much as 15 percent since hitting a 13-year high less than a month ago. Should U.S. results prove strong, however, it may stem the recent selling. "The earnings reports from the U.S. should help put a bottom in the market and lead to some regained strength. We think we remain in good shape," said Jim McDonald, chief investment strategist at Chicago-based Northern Trust Asset Management, which has about $924 billion in assets.   (Reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch, additional reporting by Saqib Ahmed, Chuck Mikolajczak and Rodrigo Campos; Editing by David Gaffen and Nick Zieminski) FREE AppDownload
