Wikimedia CommonsVintage sports memorabilia can be a store of wealth. This Honus Wagner baseball card is worth over $2 million."Gold gets dug out of the ground in Africa or someplace. Then we melt it down, dig another hole, bury it again and pay people to stand around guarding it. It has no utility. Anyone watching from Mars would be scratching their head." That's what Warren Buffett said back in 1998. Gold has long been considered a safe-haven investment. However, the price of gold has performed dismally in recent years. For those who don't trust the conventional financial markets, there are alternative more unorthodox ways to put away wealth. We put together a list of some odd assets that have performed relatively well. But be warned. These assets are very illiquid, and there's no guarantee that their values won't plunge as gold has before them. FREE AppDownload
A prudent investment strategy usually stresses diversification because no one knows when a single stock, industry, or entire financial asset class will tank.  A very typical investment portfolio will have a mix of both stocks and bonds, like Treasury bonds. Investors count on this mix because when stocks tank, that money often flows into bonds, sending prices in those markets higher. However, that relationship hasn't held in some recent bouts of market volatility. "Looking at two recent episodes of market volatility, the taper tantrum of 2013 and the September setback of 2014, we discover a troublesome commonality," Columbia Management's Jeffrey Knight wrote. "During both of these events, nearly the full array of asset classes posted negative returns." In other words, diversification didn't really work. During periods of crisis, it's not unusual to see investors liquidate everything. However, no one would characterize the sell-offs Knight refers to as crises. "While these two episodes proved to be only temporary, we think they foreshadow the risk management challenge that investors face when so many market prices are connected by interventionist macro policies," Knight said. "If all assets can rise together, then surely they can fall together." Columbia Management FREE AppDownload
Despite America's embargo against Cuba, baseball has been one of Havana's major exports. However, its not clear whether the historic thaw in relations between the two countries that began this month will lead to an even bigger baseball boom.  One top agent who spoke to Business Insider said, so far, the policy shift has left the baseball world with a "sea of unanswered questions." Cuba has a long baseball tradition and several players who were born there have defected to the United States in spite of the tension between the two nations and to play Major League Baseball. According to the Baseball Almanac, there are 31 active Cuban players in the MLB, including the stars Yasiel Puig and Rusney Castillo. Given Cuba's history of producing top baseball talent, President Barack Obama's Dec. 17 announcement the US will begin "normalizing" relations with the island following a prisoner exchange left many in baseball wondering whether the policy shift will have an impact on the game. Shortly after Obama's announcement on Dec. 17, the MLB's public relations department released a short statement on Twitter that said they did not have "sufficient details" about the deal to determine how it would effect the league's teams.   Indeed, while the White House has been clear about the main elements of the policy,  the specific regulations that will implement the changes have not been revealed yet. The Treasury Department, which administers and enforces the US sanctions on Cuba and will be making the regulatory changes, declined to comment on this story. Ron Shapiro, the chairman of the Shapiro Negotiations Institute, is a baseball agent who currently represents Minnesota Twins star Joe Mauer and has a slew of Hall of Famers among his former clients. Shapiro discussed the Cuba deal and its potential impact on the MLB with Business Insider this week.   APCuban star Yasiel Puig playing for the Los Angeles Dodgers during the MLB playoffs in October 2014.Overall, Shapiro said the deal left baseball with a "sea of unanswered questions at this point, which will resolve themselves in time."  Shapiro noted the specific components of the policy shift still have yet to be finalized. "First of all, things have to be worked out more completely at the governmental level," explained Shapiro. "We've got the breakthrough, but obviously there's unfinished business in resolving what it all means at that level." He also described the many different questions the MLB, agents, and players will have to deal with once they know the specific regulatory changes.  "Baseball then will have to analyze everything from its draft, its relationship with teams over there, when and if players come here the rules it will abide by in respecting the contract issues over there," Shapiro said. "I mean, there's just an array of things that have to be resolved. And agents will have to be careful because the Players Association may have to decide on some things with respect to players over there and whether they have any rights under the collective bargaining agreement, or when they have rights and how they're dealt with." Despite the remaining questions, an improved US relationship with Cuba clearly has a lot of potential for the MLB.  APA mural at a stadium in Havana showing former Cuban leader Fidel Castro playing baseball.Shapiro said he would expect teams to develop training and recruitment programs in Cuba, which he noted is a "fertile" source of baseball talent because "they play the game from childhood." He also suggested Cuba could be a strong market for the MLB. "Clearly Cuba, as demonstrated by the number of Cubans in major league baseball already today is a fertile ground for talent," Shapiro told BI. "It's also a fertile ground for the MLB product, whether it be via television or other means. So there's a lot to be explored." Shapiro said Cuba is clearly a "great pool" of talent due to the "significant number" of current MLB players who are from here and the fact "the games that have been played over there are pretty significant in terms of fan interest and the effectiveness of players." He predicted the Cuba deal will eventually lead to more Cuban talent playing in the US. "Cuba is a partially tapped source that will be more fully tapped now," Shapiro said. FREE AppDownload
Unless something magical happens between now and the end of the year, or oil stocks go into another tailspin, IBM is on track to be the worst performing stock in the Dow Jones Industrial Average two years running, writes Kevin Kingsbury in a column for the Wall Street Journal. That hasn't happened since, "now-departed Bethlehem Steel in 1995 and 1996," Kingsbury points out: IBM remains the DJIA’s worst performer of 2014 with a 13.5% drop—all of it since the Dow first closed above 17,000 on July 3 and equal to a 168-point ballast on the index since then. The index’s second-weakest stock this year has been Chevron Corp.CVX -0.36% with an 8.8% decline. If you purchased IBM's stock when CEO Ginni Rometty took office in January 2012, you'd be down 12%, he points out. To be fair, Rometty didn't cause the problem. She was handed the baton at the exact moment that tectonic plates shifted in the computer industry. Companies want to buy less technology. They want to rent it hosted by others (a practice known as cloud computing). IBM didn't exactly miss the cloud boat. It has some significant game up there with Amazon, Microsoft, and Google. But it's taking time to catch up. Meanwhile, time may be running out for Rometty to prove that her turnaround plan is solid, Kingsbury warns. IBM finished 2014 with $99.75 billion in revenue and $48.51 gross profit. By anyone's standards that's a huge and profitable company. But it's not going in the right direction. Annual revenues are down almost 7% over two years, and gross profit down 3%. IBM has missed earnings expectations several times in the last couple of years.  And in October, Rometty ditched a years-old promise made by her predecessor to hit $20 earnings per share in 2015, known internally as Roadmap 2015. That promise was somewhat arbitrary, and didn't make a lot of sense given current market realities. But the move sent shares into a tailspin from which they haven't recovered.  Rometty is doing a lot of things right: spending billions to build out more data centers, launching new cloud business units, creating new partnerships with companies like Apple, Twitter, and SAP, and with partners in China  like Tencent. She's also selling shrinking units like commodity servers, even making the unusual deal to pay partner GlobalFoundaries $1.5 billion to take over the money-losing chip making unit. "If you look at what we're investing in — and what we're divesting — you can see a significant focus on high-value areas that are strategic to the company's long-term growth. IBM is a very different company than it was when we started in 2014," an IBM spokesperson told us. But being the lowest-performing stock in the Dow for two years running is not a proud achievement. Investors could run out of patience soon if Rometty's plans don't pan out and change the company's fortunes. FREE AppDownload
David Tice has been one of the most consistently bearish stock market pundits throughout the bull market. "I tend to be very very early on these things," Tice told CNBC's Kelly Evans on Wednesday. "It’s hard to say when, but this is gonna end badly." Tice reiterated his August call that we should expect the stock market to fall by 30% to 60%. "I have the same kind of feel in ’98 and ’99; also ’05 and ’06," he said. "This is going to end badly. I have every confidence in the world." Tice continues to be concerned that velocity will pick up in the massive money supply, stoking inflation and forcing rates to go higher. “0% interest rates are not going to be here forever," he said. "When interest rates go up, there’s going to be problems. And rates are going to go up at some point.” Stifel Nicolaus' Kevin Caron was on to rebut Tice. He agreed that stocks are probably due for some pullback, but he didn't see any signs of an imminent crash. Caron also took issue with Tice's comparison of today to the dotcom bubble and the housing bubble. He noted that stock market valuations are nowhere near their highs of the dotcom bubble and home prices and credit levels are nowhere near their highs of the more recent housing/credit bubble. Caron further welcomed the idea of higher rates because it would likely accompany high real GDP growth. Despite his bearishness, Tice is not actually betting on a near-term sell-off. “I’ve not been short stocks," Tice said after being asked by Evans how to play this market. "I’ve played VIX call options a couple of times. I’ve lost money some times; I’ve made a little bit of money some times." "I’m still a big believer in gold," Tice said. "And that certainly hasn’t treated me well.” Indeed, gold has been getting punished in recent years falling 28 % in 2013 and sliding another 2% this year. Tice thinks gold is a good bet if inflation picks up. “Bullion I feel is the buy of a lifetime," he said. For someone who spends his time being so negative all the time, Tice actually has a very glass-half-full way of thinking about plunging gold prices. "Looking at oil prices falling as they have, gold has actually held in pretty well given how low oil has gone," he said. FREE AppDownload
Vladimir Putin is putting a cap on the soaring vodka prices now that Russians are switching over to moonshine, reports the state-owned TASS news agency. It's unclear how the caps will be employed, but they're coming. Vodka prices have increased in Russia partially due to the current economic crisis.  The country is struggling with a devalued ruble (which has dropped 45% against the dollar this year) and high inflation, which hit 10.4% on Wednesday. And now that vodka prices are up because of the struggling economy, people are trying to find new, cheap ways of getting their hands on spirits — aka with moonshine. But Putin doesn't want Russians starting to drink more and more bootlegged spirits. "Illegal vodka, all sorts of surrogate spirits of this kind start popping up when the legal products are overpriced," Putin said during a meeting of the State Council and the Council for Culture. One reason why Putin doesn't want Russians to increase their consumption of bootlegged spirits, in part  because of Russia's large problem with alcohol — especially for men. "We have to fight [alcoholization] in sane ways," he said on Tuesday. 25% of Russian men die before their 55th birthday — a problem that is partially attributed to alcohol consumption. The risk of dying before 55 is exacerbated by those "who said they drank three or more half-liter bottles of vodka a week." By comparison, only 10% of US men die before their 55th birthday, and only 7% of men in the UK do. However, it's also interesting to note that Putin's announcement about capping vodka prices coincided with the day that survey results showing growth in "protest moods" in Russia. FREE AppDownload
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani was elected largely on the premise that he's a moderate. But his 2015 budget proposal suggests that he's more interested in preserving the repressive regime than moving the country toward the middle. Emanuele Ottolenghi and Saeed Ghasseminejad, both fellows at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, write in the Wall Street Journal that while Rouhani did soften sanctions on Iran and help lead the country on a path out of recession, his 2015 budget is great for the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), intelligence branches, and clerical courts that serve the repressive regime of Ayatollah Ali Hosseini Khamenei. There's some increased healthcare spending built into the budget to help appease middle- and lower-class Iranians, but the budget also includes an increase in government tax revenue and defense spending and a substantial reduction in bread subsidies. "Rouhanomics," therefore, "isn’t a recipe for economic growth but for balancing middle-class discontent," according to the op-ed. Ottolenghy and Ghasseminejad write: Not only is Rouhanomics going to inflict economic pain on the very constituency that swept the new president to power, but it will also empower the regime apparatus tasked with taming the inevitable discontent of Mr. Rouhani’s constituents. ...  The bottom line is that Mr. Rouhani’s budget appears aimed at streamlining public spending without cutting off welfare completely, but at the same time strengthening the institutions tasked with internal repression and external adventurism. This increase in defense spending comes at a time when oil revenues — which are estimated to account for about a third of the public budget — are dropping significantly. Meanwhile, activists say the number of executions and political prisoners hasn't changed much during Rouhani's tenure, and the press is still heavily restricted. "After a year in office, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani has achieved a steady thaw in relations with the West but failed so far to deliver on campaign promises of more freedom at home," Babak Dehghanpisheh of Reuters reported in September. Anadolu Agency/Getty ImagesSupreme Leader of Iran Ali Khamenei (L) meets with Iranian president Hassan Rouhani in Tehran, Iran on July 14, 2014. Hardline Iranians are still restricting political and social freedoms. For example, earlier this year, several young Iranians got suspended sentences of six to 12 months in jail and 91 whip lashes for making a music video for Pharrell Williams' "Happy" that showed women without hijabs dancing with men, according to Reuters. Abbas Milani, director of the Iranian Studies program at Stanford University, told Reuters in September that Rouhani doesn't consider internal human rights issues to be a high priority right now and is instead focusing on diplomatic relations with the West — one area where he has made tangible progress. The US greatly upgraded its relations with Iran last year. A phone call between Rouhani and President Barack Obama represented the first time US and Iranian leaders had spoken since the 1979 Iranian revolution. Obama and Rouhani discussed Iran's nuclear program. Iran and Western nations haven't reached a deal yet on Iran's nuclear program. The talks have been extended into next year. REUTERS/Joe Klamar/PoolU.S. Secretary of State John Kerry steps out as Britain's Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif, German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier, French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius, EU envoy Catherine Ashton and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi (LtoR) pose for photographers during their meeting in Vienna November 24, 2014.Meanwhile, the foreign arm of the IRGC has been running the Assad regime's campaign against secular and Islamist rebels in Syria. The Iran-backed government in Damascus continues to rain barrel bombs on civilian areas while Al Qaeda's Syrian affiliate routs US-backed rebels, ISIS runs a self-declared caliphate, and Tehran sends fighters from multiple countries to bolster Assad. The IRGC has also co-opted the government in neighboring Iraq, where Shia militias — some of them backed by Iran — are using the fight against the Islamic State (aka ISIS or ISIL) to burn Sunni communities to the ground. Iran is also running Baghdad's air war. "The United States is not the first player in Iraq. Iran is the first player in Iraq. They think Sunni fighters will be like militias for the Sunnis," Najim al Jabouri, a retired Iraqi army general who is now a fellow at the National Defense University in Washington, told Jonathan Landay of McClatchy last month. "I think Iran is working very hard to stop the United States' strategy in Iraq." Now that Rouhani's own budget reflects the power of the IRGC, Ottolenghi and Ghasseminejad note that the people "in the West, and inside the country, who had entertained illusions of reform will be disappointed." FREE AppDownload
After being one of the star original employees at Foursquare, Tristan Walker became an Entrepreneur In Residence at Andreessen Horowitz. There, he had the opportunity to imagine and build his own company with the help of his mentor, Ben Horowitz. Once Walker hit on the right idea, Walker &amp; Company, Inc., a health and beauty company for people of color, came to life in just nine months.  But it wasn't Walker's first idea. Here, he discusses the mistakes he made along the way and how Horowitz's feedback was crucial for his success.  Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis Disclosure: Marc Andreessen, co-founder of Andreessen Horowitz, is an investor in Business Insider.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidJordan Kessler, son of trader Glenn Kessler, uses his father's mobile phone and badge on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange November 28, 2014.Sometimes the best way to understand the future is to look to the past. US Trust's Chief Market Strategist Joseph P. Quinlan has put together a list of the top 10 macroeconomics lessons from 2014 in order to show what investors should watch next year. "We thought it might be instructive to look back, not forward, at some of the lessons of 2014," Quinlan said. "It helps to understand the twists and turns of the past when peering into the future." Check them out. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsUntil now, we couldn't find a single major Wall Street strategist that was predicting US stocks would fall in 2015. Of the strategists followed by Business Insider, the most bearish have been Goldman Sachs, Credit Suisse, and Barclays who all see the S&amp;P 500 topping out at 2,100 in 2015. That's higher than today's levels. But Societe Generale has come out with a contrarian view: US stocks are going to slide in 2015. "Since 1875, we have never seen the S&amp;P rise for seven calendar years in a row, so an eighth year would seem highly unlikely," Societe Generale's Roland Kaloyan said in a Dec. 17 note to clients. "We assume that the S&amp;P 500 will finish the year slightly down as the strengthening of the US dollar and the new tightening cycle offset the strong US GDP growth already priced-in at the start of the year." @finansakrobat tweeted this map summarizing the firms outlook for global stocks in 2015. The red map of the US with "S&amp;P 500: -1%" really sticks out. Societe Generale However, Kaloyan is feeling positive about other countries in Asia and Europe. The firm is expecting stocks soaring in Hong Kong, Japan, Taiwan, and several European countries including Spain. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.The incredible bull run in stocks continued. US markets spent the day in the green, but gave up much of the day's rally during the final hour of today's half day of trading. At the end, the Dow closed at a new high. The S&amp;P 500 closed marginally in the red. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: 1. The US markets set new intraday highs today. The S&amp;P 500 got as high as 2,087.56. The Dow got as high as 18,086.24. 2. Initial weekly unemployment claims fell to 280,000 from 289,000 a week ago. This was lower than the 290,000 expected by economists. The 4-week moving average declined to 290,250 from 298,750 a week ago. "Labor market separations remain at very low levels, and we look for continuing improvement as seasonal effects filter through the data in the coming weeks," Barclays' Jesse Hurwitz said. 3. "Incredibly unemployment claims at 280K are lower now than they were at any time during the housing bubble year economic expansion years 2004 to 2006," Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey noted. "The Greenspan Fed judged 280K unemployment claims back then showed an overheating economy requiring a 5% Fed funds rate.  Yellen was there at the Fed voting for rate hikes back then, but today she is keeping the rate at 0.25%." 4. Sony announced that it would release "The Interview" online. It'll be available on Google Play, YouTube, Microsoft's Xbox Video, and SeetheInterview.com at 1:00 p.m. ET today. As previously announced, it'll be released in more than 300 US theaters on December 25. 5. The stock markets will be closed Thursday for Christmas. See you Friday!   Don't Miss: GOLDMAN: Here Are The 10 Big Market Stories That'll Dominate 2015 » FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - As falling oil prices have ripped through energy stocks this year, five U.S. corporate spin-offs in the sector have not escaped the share price carnage and face a tougher road to recovery than more-established companies. Shares of three of the newly independent companies have tumbled more than 60 percent each since separating this summer: Paragon Offshore Plc, Noble Corp's spin-off of drilling assets; Civeo Corp, which provides oilfield "man camps" and split from Oil States International; and Seventy Seven Energy, an oilfield services firm that had been part of Chesapeake Energy. Their small sizes, recent debuts as independent companies, and, in some cases, positions in niche energy businesses, put the spin-offs at a disadvantage as oil hovers at five-year lows, analysts say. "They don’t have a track record," said Mike Breard, an energy stock analyst for Hodges Capital Management inDallas. "You feel better buying something you know when you're trying to catch a falling knife." A Reuters survey released on Monday projected an oil recovery in the second half of 2015. Even if that does materialize, "these companies are smaller in market cap, and investors are likely to buy larger, more liquid shares initially," said James West, an analyst at Evercore ISI. California Resources Corp, Occidental Petroleum's former California exploration assets, became a public company only in the past month. But its shares have dropped about 30 percent. The S&amp;P Energy Index is off 19 percent from its June peak. While the most beaten-up shares "could rebound the best," Edward Jones analyst Brian Youngberg says, spin-off stocks will likely languish "until (oil) prices show a steady improvement that the market thinks is going to hold up for a while." investing.com, Business InsiderEnergy spin-offs have lagged those of other sectors, with shares rising 12 percent on average one year after splitting from their parents, compared with a 22 percent average increase across industries, according to a study released this month from The Edge Consulting Group. Some stock watchers are wary of painting spin-offs with the same brush. Shares of National Oilwell Varco's products distributor spin-off, Now Inc, are off about 14 percent since regular trading started, versus a 44 percent drop for chief rival MRC Global. Now Inc has benefited from a relatively strong balance sheet, said KeyBanc Capital Markets analyst Jeffrey Hammond. Paragon's heavy debt load and less-desirable drilling assets have made it particularly susceptible to the oil price drop, said Christian Ledoux, senior portfolio manager at South Texas Money Management. "While it might not go back to its IPO price, (the stock could) more than a double," he said. "But you need a stronger oil price to have that happen." (Reporting by Lewis Krauskopf; Editing by Dan Grebler) FREE AppDownload
Trading Places screenshot It's the holidays and you're probably away from the trading desk and spending some quality time with your family. That doesn't mean you can't get a little Wall Street in your day, though. Why not kick back on the couch and watch one of these Wall Street movies during your downtime.  You'll definitely enjoy yourself, and you might even learn something.   FREE AppDownload
Making the big decision to shave your head? First of all, I salute you: Hanging on to a few strands of hair is rarely a great look; it takes confidence to truly commit to a hair-free head. Of course, those who do decide to shave their remaining hair instead of horde it have plenty of good company – a few very sexy action movie stars rocking clean domes come immediately to mind. If you’re just getting ready to give it your first go, read through these tips to make the most out of your next evolutionary leap. 1. Sunscreen. Every morning. Scalp, ears, neck, face. Look for a scalp-specific sunblock, which is formulated not to run into your eyes, which can be annoying. 2. Even short hair will block sunlight—which means that the pale-skinned among you will want to avoid shaving the day after getting a lot of sun. Those short hairs will have shielded the UV rays—meaning that after the shave is done, they’ll be the proud owners of a tan neck and a spectacularly bright-white scalp. 3. A good moisturizer is a key part of beating dry skin on your scalp. It’s possible to find a product doing double duty, but I find that grooming goods that mix both elements wind up having a “jack of all trades/master of none” thing going on. I prefer to get the best moisturizer for my skin type, and then pair it with a non-allergenic sunscreen. 4. You might have thought you were done with shampoo and conditioner. Not so fast: They’re specifically formulated to be more moisturizing for your scalp than standard soap, which can be drying. That means: Shampoo every time you shower, and condition at least 2-3 times a week, following with a pre-shave gel to prep the skin before your big shave. 5. Argan or tea tree oil can offer extra-moisturizing properties during dry, inclement weather (so basically, from now until March.) 6. Get a good view. Make sure you’re working in good lighting with mirrors aplenty; a nick on your face doesn’t feel great; neither do those that happen elsewhere. 7. Shave post-shower. Advances in blade technology have helped smooth the way for your shave, but you still want to help things along where you can. Your hair will be at its softest, meaning you’ll need to use less pressure to get the job done—lessening the chance of razor burn and noticeable cuts. 8. The right shave gel offers a make-or-break moment: Choose well, and you’ll reduce your chances for razor burn and improve the quality of your shave. Try Gillette’s Fusion HydraGel shave gel, the formula skips the stuff your skin doesn’t want — like dyes and fragrances — for sensitive skin. 9. Slipped up and feeling the burn anyway? Razor burn on the scalp can be painful for as long as a week. Whatever you do, don’t scratch, which can lead to infection and even more headache. Treat it with a topical hydrocortisone and put the razor away until your skin is no longer irritated. 10. A basic grooming tenet that plenty of people forget: Always shave in the direction hair grows—not against it, even though that sometimes feels particularly satisfying. Going against the natural order of things can lead to razor burn. 11. Hold your (shaved) head high. Once you’ve made the decision to shave it all off, own it! Don’t hide your light under a bushel—or in this case, a fedora or baseball cap. At least, not all the time. Remember those action heroes we talked about before? They always get the girl in the end, so get in touch with that confidence! FREE AppDownload
YouTubeCarl Richards“We’re in a moment in time right now where there is so much change going on in our industry, really revolutionary change, and I think for all of us this represents a massive opportunity,” said Carl Richards, author of The Behavior Gap, at the opening session of the 67th CFA Institute Annual Conference in Seattle. “How can we together change the world? What can we do as an industry to make a difference?” It was a fitting challenge to delegates at a conference billed as “shaping the future of finance.” Indeed, what can be done to restore trust and promote personal integrity? Using an iPad as a virtual, real-time sketch pad, Richards created simple circle sketches to illustrate truisms about investing behavior and our relationship with money, explaining the six things he believes could make a difference. 1. Admit That We’re Part of the Problem Richards, a weekly contributor to the New York Times, is well known for popularizing the term “behavior gap.” Simply put, the behavior gap explains the difference in investment and investor returns. For example, it is the percentage difference between a fund’s stated returns and the returns that individual investors actually get. CFA Institute The “behavior gap,” he said, comes from measuring time-weighted versus dollar-weighted rates of return. “Most of the money in a mutual fund is advised; it gets there because an adviser put it there. So if there is a big difference between the time-weighted and dollar-weighted rate of return on mutual funds, and most of the money is advised, we are part of the problem,” he said. “We are constantly creating new products. It is easy to sell to clients what they want, but it takes a bit more to have them purchase what they need, and often we are facilitating this mess we have created. Our industry has to be one of the most opaque industries in the world. Nobody really knows what they pay. It’s really hard to even figure it out.” CFA Institute Richards said another reason why he thinks the financial industry is part of the problem is because of the way men make decisions. CFA Institute“We call it research, but what do is we say ‘I’m going to make a decision, and then I’m going to do my research, and my research is going to systematically dismiss everything I don’t agree with and include everything I do.’ We’re constantly looking for evidence to support our decisions.” 2. Start Talking about Money (Not Markets and Investing but Personal Finance) “We are helping people with decisions that are going to fund their lifetime dreams and goals . . . [but] we haven’t figured out how to talk about money because every time we go to touch it, it turns into a little argument. We expect it to be like a spreadsheet and a calculator. And it’s not, because it is emotional.” 3. Talk about the Right Things CFA Institute “When is the last time you read something in the newspaper that you then acted upon immediately and were glad you acted upon it afterwards? Beating an index may not be as important as what the clients are trying to accomplish with their money or investing goals.” 4. Simplify “We’re nervous to make things too simple,” said Richards. “We have a belief that complexity is some sort of sign of intellectual gift, or we think of it as a selling tool in our industry. I’ll dig a hole, throw the client in it, and say: ‘Hey, I’m the only one with the rope.’ Either way, it is a bad model. People just want you to make it simpler.” Richards said people often get confused between “simplistic and elegantly simple.” CFA Institute   “If you deliver on the promise of making your clients’ financial lives simpler, people will pay you for that.” 5. Ask Why It’s important to ask why. Why are we doing what we do? And, as an industry, what is our ultimate goal? “A business will only be around for a long, long time if it serves the ultimate goal of the customer,” Richards said. “And when we think about the end goal for anybody who is investing money, most of the time the end goal has something to do with meeting some financial goal, and often it’s about happiness. (‘I just want to be secure,’ ‘I want freedom,’ ‘I just want to be happy.’) It’s important to focus on the plan or objective, not the product.” “One thing that has been interesting to me lately . . . is this movement to automated advice, and the anxiety that I sense from the industry about being replaced by an algorithm,” Richards said. “I think we are viewing it the wrong way. . . . As long as trust and empathy are an important part of giving [financial] advice, there will always be a role for humans in that relationship.” CFA Institute  6. Let Go CFA InstituteThis may be one of Richards’s best-known circle sketches. “Focus on the intersection between things that matter and things that we can control,” he said. “Most of the things that matter — save one, the market — we have control over. We spend all of our time worried about the one thing that we have no control over. If we could just spend more time focused on the things that actually matter, helping clients and the public . . . people would be happier and, as a byproduct, they’d have a better investment experience.” The 68th CFA Institute Annual Conference will be held 26–29 April 2015, in Frankfurt. You can learn more at the conference website. If you liked this post, don’t forget to subscribe to the Enterprising Investor. FREE AppDownload
It’s not just a function of wallet size.  Most men are happy to receive the things we feel guilty about buying or are too lazy to buy for ourselves… But of course, what we really want are the things we didn’t even know we wanted. Last year’s list, which included a Tesla for the lake ($120,000), fossilized Triceratops skull ($200,000), backgammon set ($5,000), and the greatest Christmas movie of all time ($20), is worth revisiting; there’s no expiration date on great ideas.  John LeFevre is the creator of the @GSElevator Twitter feed and the author of the soon-to-be-released Straight To Hell: True Tales of Deviance, Debauchery, and Billion-Dollar Deals.   FREE AppDownload
Despite extraordinary visibility, capital, and hype, Twitter continues to struggle to move beyond the status of a niche social network. A recent chart from Morgan Stanley, tweeted by Business Insider's Elena Holodny, shows that Twitter's share over overall Internet usage time remains tiny. And time spent on the service actually grew more slowly than the overall Internet last year. Importantly, this chart only appears to show time spent on Twitter.com, and most of Twitter's usage comes via apps, so this chart presents only a partial picture. But the big blue band at the bottom, which shows the same measure for Facebook, illustrates the vast difference in the amount of attention commanded by the two networks. Twitter is the little black band at the top. The Death Of Twitter pic.twitter.com/sKdYQCbV5D These struggles are one reason some Twitter investors are losing patience with the company's CEO. SEE ALSO: A Gen-Z'er Just Explained The Different Social Networks To Me FREE AppDownload
Lori L/YelpIt's Christmas Eve. That means that all over the world families are gathering together around dinner tables to celebrate. But here in New York, we have our own tradition: Eating at a Chinese restaurant.  In the beloved tradition of eating Chinese food on Christmas, we've found the best Chinese restaurants in Manhattan. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David MoirHe ought to be a software programmer.Yesterday, the UK and the US both reported new numbers for economic growth. In the UK, Q3 GDP was adjusted down to 2.6%. Across the pond, growth was a massive 5%. The pace of growth in America is roughly twice that of Britain, in other words. This is surprising, because the two countries have similar economies and governments with similar fiscal policies. They share the same language (duh) and, frequently, large international companies have sizable numbers of employees in both countries. So why is Britain faring so much worse in the recovery? The answer is jobs and investment. America does much better on both factors: It has stronger public and private investment either coming in, or staying in the country. And it has better, higher paid jobs that are more productive — making those investments pay off. To put that in cartoonish anecdotal terms: America is now a nation of highly paid software developers. The British, meanwhile, are selling pies at Greggs for minimum wage. (Greggs is the archetypal cheap sandwich shop found in every British high street, for those of you reading this outside the UK.) It's tempting to think that the UK's growth problem is due to the fact that it's currently parked in a bad neighbourhood. Britain won't be seeing any positive knock-on effects from economic growth in Greece, Italy or Spain for a while. Russia basically just collapsed and will be in recession for the next two years, economist believe. External demand for our exports is crimped. The US, by contrast, is so big it is its own neighbourhood, so it isn't affected as much by a downturn in Portugal. But this isn't the main difference. Because Britain is doing so much better than its neighbours it ought to attract investment. But as a note to investors from Investec Economics yesterday points out, investment is actually leaving the country on a net basis: The main story was once again the weakness of the balance of investment income, which hit a new record low of  -£12.4bn (minus £12.4bn). Of particular note was that the UK recorded a deficit of £1.7bn on income from direct investment during the quarter, only the second time in 17 years that this has occurred. This represents payback time for the number of years of consistent current account deficits which have resulted in a worsening in the UK’s net international investment position. This is estimated to have been in surplus in mid-1995 but is now reckoned to be in deficit to some £451bn, or 25% of GDP. At the same time, the jobs that are being created in the UK are low-wage jobs (think cafes and pubs and, yes, Greggs). Those types of jobs have a lower return on investment than high-paid, high-skilled jobs (think app developers and drug researchers). Here's the Bank of England's most recent job creation chart. Note that the biggest growth in jobs is in the low-skilled sector: Bank of England In fact, in the UK, wages aren't even keeping pace with inflation. The general direction of this chart (below) tells you all you need to know, but the phenomenon you should care about is the fact that earnings of all workers in the UK have shrunk to below 90% of what they were in 2008, and that the wages of low and medium-skilled workers have taken the biggest hit of all: ONS In the US, wages have beaten inflation recently (even if only marginally), according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The investment picture in the US couldn't look more different. Here were the contributing factors to GDP growth there, according to the US Commerce Department: Of those factors, three are forms of investment. (Conservatives ought to note that government spending is driving the US economy quite nicely. This crimps their argument that the UK's anaemic growth is the fault of the NHS — both countries have large-spending state sectors.) Now, here is what investment looks like in the UK. It's the light blue section of the column — notice how it basically collapsed in Q3: ONS That's the difference between the US and the UK in terms of growth. Both are growing, but the UK is hobbled by low wages and lousy investment levels. It's tempting to conclude that low wages are reducing investment simply because low-wage jobs are so much less productive than high-wage/high skill jobs. In the US, the investment picture is much rosier: private investment and government spending appears to be boosting the economy at double the pace of the UK. FREE AppDownload
The US dollar’s gains scored yesterday in the wake of a strong upward revision in Q3 GDP to 5% have been pared slightly today in extremely thin market conditions. The euro was sold to a new 28-month low (~$1.2165) yesterday and is struggling to re-establish a foothold above $1.22. Encouraged by the US GDP, the backing up of US rates and a 1.25% rise in the Nikkei, the dollar above JPY120.25 today. Recall that the greenback hit a low of nearly JPY115.50 on December 16. Yesterday the dollar stalled just above JPY120.80, which is about one yen off the multi-year high set on December 8. Sterling is also consolidating its loss seen yesterday amid the contrasting Q3 GDP reports. While the US was revised higher, the year-over-year pace in the UK was cut to 2.6% from 3.0%. The dollar-bloc currencies are slightly firmer. Despite the weaker oil prices and S&amp;P’s warning that there is a 50% chance Russia could lose its investment grade status in the next three months, the ruble is slightly firmer day. The focus is on a modest form of capital controls (forcing 5 state-controlled companies to repatriate their fx holdings by March 1) and the government’s offer of hard currency loans to Russian banks and businesses to service external debt. The contagion has spilled over to Belarus. Separately, the Chinese yuan also stabilized after falling to six-month lows. Liquidity conditions have eased as the IPOs are launched and/or tie up less funds than projected. The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index rose about 0.6%, helped by that advance in the Nikkei, and gains in Korea and Taiwan. China’s Shanghai Composite fell 2% after losing 3% yesterday. Reports suggest light suasion by Chinese officials have helped spark the profit-taking after a 30% rally from the unexpected PBOC rate cut on November 21 through December 22. Not all European bourses are open, and those that are, are mixed. The FTSE and CAC are about 0.25% lower, while Italy’s market is up over 1%. Activity in the bond markets is subdued and European benchmark 10-year yields are mostly at record lows. Bigger moves are being seen at the short-end as cash is parked for the holidays. Seven euro zone members have negative two-year yields. US yields are moving in the opposite direction. The US 10-year yield reached almost 2% on December 16 and is now 2.25%, a nearly three week high. The US 2-year yield was just below 48 bp December 16, and now it is near 75 bp. Oil prices are lower following the API inventory report. US session features weekly initial jobless claims. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Vivek Prakash It's proven that sitting all day is killing you, and keyboards and mice can give you carpal tunnel. One way to break free from your desk is through voice recognition software.  Computer dictation can be hit and miss, but Dragon has managed to squeeze 99.9% accuracy into Dragon Dictate for Mac 4, and a similar level into Dragon NaturallySpeaking 13 for PC — which might be even more accurate than your keyboard. Both are fully headset compatible, and you can set up custom lists with apps. In addition to being able to “write” documents aloud, Dictate for Mac actually allows you to control the other apps on your OS X machine, meaning you can create new documents and send tweets hands-free. Other cool options include the ability to convert pre-recorded audio files into editable text, and the use of voice shortcuts to expand small snippets into often-used longer clauses. NaturallySpeaking can speak your words back to you for “proof-hearing”, and improve its own accuracy by analyzing your documents. Furthermore, you can even use an iPhone, iPod Touch or iPad equipped with Dragon’s app as a remote mic.  Both Dictate for Mac and NaturallySpeaking are available in English, English - UK, French, and German languages. To grab these Dragon apps at half price, head for the links below (make sure to choose the appropriate language on the product page). Get 50% off Dragon Dictate for Mac 4 ($99.99) Get 50% off Dragon NaturallySpeaking 13 Home ($49.99) Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
MANHATTAN — The rise of glittering new condos for billionaires and the decline of homes priced under $1 million set the tone for New York's residential real estate market in 2014.  Now, there's a slowdown in sales for the pricey new condos, while the appetite for lower-priced apartments has only grown stronger. Expect a shift in the strategies of developers in 2015, including a focus on all things smaller, whether in the luxury market or in the rental market, with buzz about micro units and shared suites for roommates. We asked some real estate experts to share their 2015 forecasts: 1. Price growth cools in Manhattan Prices are still expected to increase in Manhattan, but at a slower pace: rising a "healthy" 4 percent, which is roughly half the growth the market saw in 2014, StreetEasy data scientist Alan Lightfeldt predicts. 2. But not in Brooklyn and Queens As many New Yorkers embrace Crown Heights, Bedford-Stuyvesant and Long Island City, prices are set to continue rising at faster rates. "There's still such an influx in new demand pushing prices, so the story might be a little different there," Lightfeldt said. 3. More inventory is expected in those boroughs Inventory is expected to rise with new development — condos and rentals — in Brooklyn and Queens, along with an uptick in apartment owners looking to downsize or trade up. "We have a lot of owners looking to put their homes on market in first quarter," said Corcoran's Leslie Marshall, who specializes in Brownstone Brooklyn. "Owners see that prices are good, they've been good for a few years now and who knows where they’ll go, so why wait. They're saying, 'let's get on the bandwagon.'" 4. But developers might also pause before building new rentals A state program, known as 421a, that gives tax breaks to developers is set to sunset on June 15, 2015, spurring many developers to rush and file plans before the deadline, since they are not sure what to expect next. "There is nothing scarier than uncertainty," said Drew Fletcher, of theGreystone Bassuk Group, a leading provider of multi-family mortgage loans. Many rental developers are taking a pause until there's more "clarity on what the ground rules are." 5. Amenities get 'cool' Developers are creating events and programs to ensure amenity spaces get used, especially for high-end rentals. At Downtown Brooklyn's 42-story 66 Rockwell Pl., the developer hired a full time "amenity manager" to oversee the 10,000 square feet of common spaces, Dermot Company's Andrew Levinson said. The building is partnering with the nearby Mark Morris Dance Group to offer classes onsite and talking to other local arts organizations like Brooklyn Academy of Music to create some "cool" events, like film series. "We want to inspire people to stay in our buildings for a long time. This is one way to do that," he said. "And, quite frankly, rents are very expensive in New York City, and we want to make sure people are getting value for what they're paying for." 6. Developers will focus on roommates Paying $3,000 a month for a one-bedroom is too burdensome for many New Yorkers, especially the coveted group of young professionals, so developers are eyeing the "micro-suites" model where up to three tenants, each with their own small room, share a kitchen and bathroom. "You have to find alternatives," said Greg Katz, a partner of Sterling Equities, which shifted some attention this year from Manhattan to Brooklyn, snatching up Williamsburg rentals. The company is discussing how "young professionals can have a clean, safe place" and perhaps "split up an apartment where they're paying less than $1,500 a month," Katz said. 7. Manhattan's ultra-luxury market shifts to smaller units With the uptick in new condos priced above $10 million, brokers have seen a slowdown in sales. Feeling less urgency, wealthy buyers are becoming choosier, many said. Reversing the recent trend of sprawling units, developers are eyeing new strategies like creating smaller apartments that have the luxurious touches and still command $2,500 to $3,000 a square foot, experts predict. "Now, instead of palatial, we have clients taking a slightly more conservative approach to what they're building," Fletcher said. "They're trying to do more modest-sized units, priced at $2 million to $4 million, to appeal to a broader market." 8. China will lead the foreign buyers Foreign buyers from politically or economically unstable parts of the word  will continue viewing New York real estate as "the most safe and lucrative investment," said Corcoran's Tamir Shemesh. Chinese buyers will dominate, especially as its government loosens investment restrictions, he added. 9. Local elites want smaller buildings and more privacy High net-worth locals — those in finance and entertainment who are raising their families here —  want smaller, private-feeling buildings, said architect Nancy Ruddy, of Cetra Ruddy, who worked on 443 Greenwich St. in TriBeCa, where a driveway goes into the building so residents never have to touch a sidewalk. Elevators open onto apartments — and won't stop until you've reached the lobby so there's no need for elevator small talk. "The issue of privacy and exclusivity has become a new touch point," Ruddy said. 10. Neighborhood undergoing most massive transformation: Hudson Yards With the No. 7 train extension on track to open in February and the early phases of the $20 billion Hudson Yards project to begin opening over the next few years, the spotlight will be on the far West Side, many said. "That 7 line is going to be amazing," said Karen Kelley, of Corcoran. "Everything is going to converge and make that area a great value now for people who have foresight." 11. Queens will have its day Newly-minted as the nation's No. 1 tourist destination by Lonely Planet,Queens is on many developers' radar. Besides big projects in Long Island City and Astoria, new development is rising in other areas, from Forest Hills to Flushing. "Queens is the next frontier," said Barry Brandt, director of sales at Argo Real Estate, a real estate owner and property management company. A lot of "established development money" is now being funneled into Queens, he said noting, for instance, Vornado Realty Trust's 314-unit luxury apartment tower above its Rego Park shopping mall and Lincoln Equities Groups' $1 billion Hallets Point project expected to bring more than 2,000 market rate and affordable units to Astoria. 12. The Bronx is next As Queens and Brooklyn become pricier for house hunters — and developers — the next stop is The Bronx, several experts said. Bronx neighborhoods including Tremont, Pelham Parkway and Mott Haven, in the South Bronx, are expected to see revitalization, Brandt noted. 13. Project people will be talking about: MyMircoNY Expect buzz around the end-of-summer opening of the city's winning micro-unit project on East 27th Street. In the spring, developer Monadnock will be hosting a "stacking event" for the 9-story prefabricated building — when cranes stack the units made in a Brooklyn Navy Yard factory. When the building is ready, Monadnock plans to invite the public to peak into the 55 units, ranging from 250 to 370 square feet. "A 260 square foot unit that has big windows and tall ceilings and nice design is a very nice place to live in," said project manager, Tobias Oriwol. "Until someone walks into a unit like this, they’re not going to realize that everyone knows someone who lives in a smaller, but worse situation than what we have. I think it will be really eye opening that the stereotype of the tiny dark musty room doesn’t really apply to small living spaces." 14. A focus on kitchens for foodies Apartment dwellers building trophy kitchens are now actually using those spaces, said architect Lee Skolnick. "Because of people eating well and eating local and cooking at home, we find people more interested in what's really going to work for them," he said. They're looking at restaurant-quality Wolf ranges and want counters that won't leech chemicals, so more people are going back to butcher blocks for islands, he said. Kitchens are also looking more like built-in furniture, opened up to living/dining areas. But since many apartments don't have room for islands, architect Marc Spector said designers have to get more creative with storage space. 15. "Mud rooms" are the rage Apartment dwellers want "dumping grounds" for coats, shoes and backpacks, so besides building vestibules inside apartments for residents, Spector is working with several clients who are buying the rights to use part of their building's corridor space — at the end of hallways where it won't create egress issues — to build such spaces. People want the "luxury of having a space to take off and then go in," Spector said. FREE AppDownload
Saffo borrows the term “cone of uncertainty” from weather forecasting. While you may not be familiar with the concept, you see it in use every time there is a hurricane forecast. The further away you get from where the hurricane actually is at the moment, the wider the “cone” predicting its possible paths. For the past two letters we’ve been looking at the global scene and trying to figure out which issues will help us outline scenarios for 2015. We finish the series today by looking at the impact of the dollar bull market on the probabilities for various 2015 developments. Let me say at the outset that I think a global currency war (kicked off by Japan last year and just now heating up) and a rising bull market in the US dollar are the big macroeconomic drivers not just for 2015 but for the next four to five years. I think all future economic outcomes pivot along with these two major forces – they are the lever and fulcrum, so to speak. As we look at all possible futures, as we map our own cones of uncertainty, it is certainly true that that our assessment could change with the emergence of important new trends at the outer fringes of the cone; but I believe (and have believed for some time) that we need to organize our forecasts around the currency war and the dollar bull market. (Let me note that even though this letter is much shorter than usual in terms of actual words, for which readers may be grateful, it will print longer, as there are an unusually large number of charts.) Before we jump into the letter, let me quickly suggest that you save the date for the Strategic Investment Conference next spring, April 30–May 2. We already have commitments from Ian Bremmer, Mohamed El-Erian, Niall Ferguson, Louis Gave, Jeff Gundlach, Lacy Hunt, Larry Meyer, Michael Pettis, David Rosenberg, and Grant Williams, and are close to finalizing an additional 4-5 headliners, which I expect to be able to announce in a few weeks. In short, the usual over-the-top group of speakers that I am somehow able persuade to show up in San Diego. Altegris Investments will have the web page up for you to register within a few weeks, and I really hope to see you there. I think this will be our best conference ever. Now let’s think about the dollar and its impact on macroeconomics. The Beginning of a US Dollar Bull Market Currencies are not supposed to have large movements in short spans of time and certainly not violent moves such as we have recently seen with the Russian ruble. Relatively stable currencies – ones that make moves measured in single digits over multiple years – are what you want to see for stable trade and world GDP growth. Violent moves like the ruble’s signal that something is seriously wrong, so wrong that it may well precipitate a deep recession. You very seldom if ever see a similarly rapid upward move in a currency. (Off the top of my head, I can’t think of one, but surely somewhere in history… and if I said “never,” I would probably be corrected by my astute readers.) Over the last few centuries, as the world moved away from the gold standard and gold-backed currencies, the valuations of fiat currencies began fluctuating, sometimes wildly, over time. Currency wars following the onset of the Great Depression certainly contributed to the length of the downturn. After World War II, the financial leaders of the nations of the world came together and created a monetary system called Bretton Woods, named after the mountain resort in New Hampshire where it was created. Basically it was an anchored dollar system, where the dollar was convertible into gold and the rest of the world used the dollar for their reserves and generally pegged their currencies to it. The linchpin of the deal was the understanding that the US dollar would remain a stable currency. We didn’t live up to that deal, printing too much money during the Vietnam War; and the nations of the world, led by France, began to ask to convert their dollars into gold. Since that would have drained the gold out of the United States, Nixon closed the “gold window.” We won’t get into the argument about the propriety of his move here. The chart below shows the US Dollar Index (the DXY, which is heavily weighted to a comparison with the euro) since 1967. Prior to 1967 the dollar was generally stable. As the value of the dollar began to slide in 1970 – a troubling development if you were holding dollars in Europe – the world began to wonder if perhaps the United States was taking advantage of its position. Note that after the closing of the gold window in ’73 the dollar continued to fall but with greater volatility. This was mostly due to the Federal Reserve’s allowing inflation and printing money.  Then Paul Volcker came along and began to raise interest rates, and a major dollar rally ensued. The dollar doubled in value in less than five years. As interest rates came down from nosebleed highs in the late ’80s, the US dollar fell back to its original level and more or less drifted sideways for the next 10 years before once again climbing to 120. Then, in the early’00s, low rates and easy money took their toll, and the dollar fell to an all-time low in the middle of the credit crisis and has traded around the “80 handle” for the last six years. This is in spite of the Fed’s undertaking massive quantitative easing and flooding the world with dollars, which you would think would put downward pressure on the dollar. That is generally what happens when a central bank floods the world with its currency. Certainly, it is what is happening in Japan, and it is what we expect to happen in the Eurozone. Something is different about the dollar, then. That difference can be explained mostly by the fact that the US dollar is the world’s reserve currency and the demand for dollars for global trade, which is growing at a rate the world has never seen, is stronger than ever. If the Federal Reserve had not entered into a policy of massive quantitative easing, it is entirely possible that we would have seen the dollar rise significantly over the last five years rather than languishing as it has. Now that quantitative easing is finally done and the Federal Reserve is thinking about   raising interest rates at a slow drip back to something that looks normal (possibly, maybe, perhaps, conceivably – we aren’t in any hurry and you may need to be patient for a considerable period of time and anyway everything is data-dependent), the coiled spring that is the dollar may be set free. And since we are in background mode, we need to understand that there are many ways to measure the strength of the dollar. As I mentioned, in the standard US Dollar Index (the DXY), significant weight is given to the euro. To more accurately reflect the strength of the dollar relative to other world currencies, the Federal Reserve created the trade-weighted US dollar index (for more about it see here and here), which includes a bigger collection of currencies than the US Dollar Index. The composition of the US Dollar Index (DXY) is -          Euro (EUR), 57.6% -          Japanese yen (JPY), 13.6% -          Pound sterling (GBP), 11.9% -          Canadian dollar (CAD), 9.1% -          Swedish krona (SEK), 4.2% -          Swiss franc (CHF), 3.6% Thus a fall in the euro, as we’ve seen recently, changes the valuation of the index more than it might another index like the Bloomberg Dollar Index (BBDXY), which is composed of a broader basket, including emerging-market currencies, with less emphasis on EUR/USD: -          Euro (EUR), 31.4% -          Japanese yen (JPY), 19.1% -          Mexican peso (MXN), 9.6% -          Pound sterling (GBP), 9.5% -          Australian dollar (AUD), 6.2% -          Canadian dollar (CAD), 11.5% -          Swiss franc (CHF), 4.2% -          Brazilian real (BRL), 2.2% -          Korean won (KRW), 3.3% -          Offshore Chinese yuan (CNH), 3.0% Note in the chart below that at times one index is stronger than the other. This is primarily a reflection of the strength or weakness of the euro and the fact that the Bloomberg Dollar Index contains a much higher proportion of emerging-market currencies.  So the takeaway here is that, when we say “the dollar is strong,” we are really talking about its strength relative to particular groupings of currencies. It’s a generalization. If an index included the Russian ruble or the Argentine peso, then the dollar would even be “stronger” as measured by that index. There Has Been No Deleveraging In general, nature keeps a balance in a given ecosystem. There is a continual adjustment between the number of predators and the number of prey, but over time the system tends toward balance. Just as nature has a way of forcing balance in the order of things, basic accounting (math is its own force of nature) has a way of forcing balance in currency flows and valuations. Quantitative easing and the developing currency war have created a great imbalance in the global economic order. The process of rebalancing the world monetary system is somewhat chaotic and crisis-prone in the best of times. Now, the massive amount of debt, both public and private, that has been created in the past decade is making that process even more chaotic.  It is usual in a crisis like the Great Recession that there is a resolution in the amount of outstanding debt, through a process called deleveraging. The process can take many forms, but in the past it has almost always meant that at the culmination of the process there is less debt. However, in recent months I’ve highlighted papers demonstrating that this time around there has been no deleveraging. Central banks and governments simply did not allow it to happen. That means we have pushed the inevitable process of deleveraging into the future. Debt cannot grow to the sky – at some point it has to be dealt with. Four years ago in Endgame and in speeches since, I’ve been proclaiming that the dollar is going to get stronger than anyone can possibly imagine. I was saying this even as the yen and the euro were strengthening at times against the dollar. Those who have been proclaiming the destruction of the dollar are just seeing one small part of the equation: quantitative easing. There is a far larger and more complicated process going on in the world, and the rebalancing that is underway is going to mean that the dollar will increase in value against most currencies, and against some currencies by a great deal. The Biggest Consequence of a Rising US Dollar The beginning of a bull market in the dollar has multiple consequences, many of them not benign. Let’s start with the BIG one, the USD breakout and unwind of the USD-funded carry trade. The yen and euro are dropping fast as the USD strengthens. As of today, the EUR/USD is below 1.23, while the USD/JPY has climbed to nearly 120. This is a function of central bank policy divergence… which in turn is a function of economic divergence among the major developed economies… which in turn is a function of debt divergence in those various economies. Total debt-to-GDP is approximately 334% in US, 460% in the Eurozone, and 655% in Japan, according to Lacy Hunt’s latest note.  With such divergence comes the major macro risk that the US Dollar Index (DXY) is breaking out in a big way. To anyone who believes in technical analysis (and skeptics should keep in mind that a lot of macro and currency traders DO), it looks like the USD is ready to break out of a 29-year downtrend that began with the Plaza Accord way back September 1985. The reversal of a trend that has been in place for that long is going to catch a number of people offsides. Unfortunately in investment and economics, you get more than a five-yard penalty for being offsides on a trend this big. We are now going to look at a number of charts in rapid-fire fashion. As noted above, the dollar bull trend is exacerbated by debt. Global debt-to-GDP has been rising over the past several years.  The pool of developed-world financial assets is still growing, after a minor decrease in 2008. Again, there has been no deleveraging.  Even though debt and financial assets have been growing in the developed world, the real explosion in debt and financial assets has occurred in emerging markets, where the unwarranted flow of easy money has fueled a borrowing bonanza on the back of a massive USD-funded carry trade.  These QE-induced capital flows have kept EM sovereign borrowing costs low and enabled years of elevated emerging-market sovereign debt issuance, even as many of those markets displayed profound signs of structural weakness. I’m seeing estimates for the USD-funded carry trade around the world ranging from $3 TRILLION to $9 TRILLION. Raoul Pal believes it is roughly $5T, with nearly $3T of that going directly into China. (Other estimates for China suggest a somewhat lower number, but whatever it is, it is massive.) Earlier this year, Bridgewater argued that total portfolio flows into emerging markets had doubled between 2008 and early 2014, from $5T to $10T.  Their study gave us some very specific data on flows into the larger EMs.  The following slide from Hyun Song Shin, head of research for the Bank for International Settlements, estimates that total USD-denominated credit to non-banks outside the United States is more than $9T.  What I’m getting at here is that a reversal in flows from a forceful unwind in USD capital flows could have disastrous effects on emerging markets... and there are a number of ways the unwind could blow back on the USA and other developed markets in coming quarters. The crazy thing is that EM currencies as a group have already given back more than 10 years of gains… and their losses can get a LOT worse.  Companies and governments in emerging markets have borrowed in dollars because of the ultralow interest rates available, but they earn the money to pay those loans back in local currencies. If the local currency is dropping significantly faster than the dollar, then no matter how profitable a business is, it is sinking deeper into debt with every tick up in the dollar. That’s what happened in 1998, and it’s happening again today. The Fourth Arrow Moving on in our survey of the world, we see the Japanese yen continuing to fall as the Bank of Japan engages in the most massive experiment in quantitative easing the world has ever seen. And they are doing it at the time when Japan’s current account and trade balance are both deeply negative.  These three realities combined mean that the yen is going to fall much further. The fourth, unstated, poison-tipped arrow of Abenomics is the launching of a major currency war, the consequences of which are now starting to be felt, as we can see in the next chart.  The potential for policy mistakes or monetary crises on the part of other Asian nations is very real and very troubling. We could see a country lose control of its currency as it tries to respond to Japan, and it is not altogether unlikely that at some point Japan itself will lose control, which would bring about a whole different set of problems and crises. Meanwhile, the US dollar’s rise will go on creating further problems for dollar-denominated debt in emerging markets, including China, which may decide that it needs to respond by devaluing the renminbi. Adding China into the Mix China’s investment boom is cooling; its competitiveness is eroding; and markets may already be pricing in a renminbi devaluation. China’s boom was largely a result of foreign direct investment and a massive increase in debt in a short period of time. Even though bank lending has grown substantially, the real growth in debt in recent years came through an explosion in non-bank loan funding. China has created a shadow banking system that is staggering in size. There have been a number of studies on the relationship between the rapidity of growth of debt and subsequent financial crises. Even if we look to a broad sample of 48 instances over the last 50 years where total social finance expanded by as little as 30% over five years (less than half the magnitude of China’s credit explosion), history suggests there is still a 50% chance of a banking crisis or an abrupt fall in growth during the post-boom period. My point is that there is a clear relationship between the intensity of a credit boom and the subsequent adjustment (downward) in GDP growth rate. There are no cases in modern history where an economy has managed to avoid a banking crisis or outright bust after experiencing rapid lending growth anything like China’s ongoing credit boom. The world is simply not prepared for a major China slowdown, let alone a hard landing. And gods forbid that the Chinese have a problem at the same time that Europe slides back into crisis. The big question is, what happens next in China? Personally, I think it will be very difficult to avoid a real fall in the Chinese growth rate in the next 3-5 years. The reforms required to rebalance China to a more sustainable growth model will be very painful, and there is a real chance they could bring on a banking panic in the short term; but without those reforms, China literally has no chance. The Chinese Dragon is attempting a very intricate and delicate dance. The world needs China to succeed, but we must recognize that a Chinese hard landing is very much within our cone of uncertainty. A Dangerous Illusion I want to close this letter with a quote from William White, who recently did an interview with Finanz und Wirtschaft, perhaps the leading business and economics newspaper in Switzerland. White is the highly regarded former chief economist of the Bank for International Settlements. Longtime readers may recall that I have quoted him at length over the years, as his writing is some of the most thought-provoking in the economics world. The interview focused on the decision by the Swiss National Bank to go to negative interest rates on January 22, 2015. Not coincidentally, the European Central Bank will be meeting that day to decide whether or not to implement its own quantitative easing program. The Swiss are quite concerned about the massive capital inflows that are pushing their currency to very uncomfortable levels. In a highly unusual move, they are going to start charging banks for the privilege of holding Swiss currency accounts. For the Swiss to enact such a move means that they must be convinced that the ECB is actually going to do something on January 22. Technically, it is against the rules for the ECB to buy sovereign debt, and the Germans are adamantly opposed. But my highly connected friend Kiron Sarkar asks: What if the ECB does introduce a QE programme, involving the purchase of EZ government debt, though only on the basis that the relevant countries meet pre-agreed targets? You have provided a massive incentive to introduce structural reforms, dealt with the German's/Bundesbank objections, and those countries that play ball will benefit from lower interest rates and a weaker euro. On the other hand, if EZ countries do not cooperate, yields on their bonds will blow out massively – just the right stick to wield. It's the classic carrot and stick approach. Too fanciful? Well, maybe, but... I guarantee you just such a solution is being talked about. We will see what actually gets implemented. Now let’s turn to the conclusion of White’s interview (emphasis mine): The SNB has to follow the ECB in its monetary policy. Is it not dangerous when the monetary policy of one country affects another? Currently we have an international monetary non-system. Nobody has to follow any rules. Everybody does what they consider is in their own short-term best interest. The real difficulty is: What is in their short-term interest – for example, following ultra-easy monetary policy – could well backfire somewhere [else]. It might be not in their long-term best interest. And as the easy monetary policy influences the exchange rates, it influences other countries. Almost every country in the world is in easing mode, following the Fed, and we have absolutely no idea how it will end up. We are in absolutely unchartered territory here. This worries me the most. The Swiss National Bank has been doing well in what it was forced to do by this international monetary non-system. The Swiss have to do the best they can, because that is what everybody else is doing. What are the risks of this non-system? There is no automatic adjustment of current account deficits and surpluses, they can get totally out of hand. There are effects from big countries to little ones, like Switzerland. The system is dangerously unanchored. It is every man for himself. And we do not know what the long-term consequences of this will be. And if countries get in serious trouble, think of the Russians at the moment, there is nobody at the center of the system who has the responsibility of providing liquidity to people who desperately need it. If we have a number of small countries or one big country which run into trouble, the resources of the International Monetary Fund to deal with this are very limited. The idea that all countries act in their own individual interest, that you just let the exchange rate float and the whole system will be fine: This all is a dangerous illusion. My associate Worth Wray will join us next week, presenting his forecast for 2015, which will concentrate on the emerging markets and China. I will return after the first of the year with my own 2015 forecast – there is much to ponder over the next couple of weeks. Cincinnati, the Cayman Islands, Zurich, and Florida I am home for the rest of the month, but the calendar for next year is beginning to fill up. I see Cincinnati, Grand Cayman, Zurich, and Florida on my schedule. It has been awhile since I was in the Cayman Islands, and this time I’ll take a short hop over to Little Cayman to visit my friend Raoul Pal for a few days. A brilliant macroeconomist and trader, Raoul has now based himself in Little Cayman, although he frequently flies to visit clients. He is also a partner with Grant Williams in Real Vision Television, a fascinating new take on internet investment TV. I’ll be writing more about it in the future. And speaking of Grant, I wish him well as he embarks upon a new endeavor, that of turning his passionate avocation of writing his brilliant newsletter Things That Make You Go Hmmm… into a business. It has been an honor and privilege to publish Grant for these last years and to help bring his wicked (not to say warped) humor and dazzling writing style to a larger audience. But the far greater reward has been getting to know Grant personally. I appreciate the kind words he wrote about me in his letter last week, and the feeling is mutual. Grant is just one of the most genuinely nice people I have ever met. Next week all my kids and grandkids and their extended families will gather for Christmas, whereupon I will cook, lose complete control of everything, and try to savor the chaos. There will be lots of presents and watching sports and eating and siblings catching up with each other on events that have played out over the past few months. “Dad, will you be going to the Lakers game the day after Christmas?” It was my daughter Abbi, who, of all my children, is the biggest sports fanatic. She lives in Tulsa, so she doesn’t get to attend many games, so how could I say no? And I do thoroughly enjoy watching Kobe and Dirk do their dance. I find it a fascinating thing about us humans that we somehow feel better if “our” team of overpaid athletes beats “your” team of overpaid athletes. I guess it’s somewhat genetic, inherited from the days when tribal identity was an all-important survival trait. And even though I know that my survival is not dependent upon the success of the Dallas Mavericks (for which I’m grateful), I do enjoy watching the game along with 17,000 other screaming fans. After having an office above right field in the ballpark of the Texas Rangers and watching so many games over the 15 years I was there, about the only professional sport I watch now is NBA basketball. I truly think it is the most beautiful of sports. Abbi was the one to alert me a few days ago that the Mavericks had traded for Rajon Rondo. Rondo is a four-time all-star point guard. One of the good things about being a Dallas Mavericks fan is that Mark Cuban is your owner. I know he’s somewhat controversial, but the guy truly cares whether or not the Mavericks win every season. You really can’t have a better owner. This year he assembled the deepest bench I have ever seen on any NBA team. Right now teams can carry 15 players, but they will have to cut that to 12 as we get deeper into the season. We were going to have to cut one or two players who could put in solid minutes for any other team in the league. Before the addition of Rondo, the team was a collection of a few great players and a lot of very good players. Not enough to win a championship but enough to compete. Simply competing is not enough for Cuban. Mark traded three very good players (and a first-round draft pick) for one potentially great player who can take us to another level. But given that we already have four other great players, his move is clearly a gambit to try and win it all this year. We still need a second big man, but with this trade we go from competing as a second-round team to potentially getting to the finals. And we still have a lot of players who might be traded for that big man. This last trade is a big gamble by Cuban that he can re-sign Rajon at the end of the year and keep him around. So “my” team just got better, at least for this year. The local tribe part of me (I’m always somewhat amused that it even exists) is quite happy. As is the rest of the local tribe. It is time to hit the send button. Let me take this opportunity to wish you and all your families and friends the merriest of Christmases and the happiest of New Years. This is one of those times when our tribe expands to encompass the globe, to become part of a greater celebration, one in which the other “team” does not have to lose in order for us all to be happy. Have a great week. I forecast that the final episode of The Hobbit will be coming to a theater very near me very soon. And that forecast has a very narrow cone of uncertainty. Your gathering my own small tribe together this week analyst, John Mauldinsubscribers@mauldineconomics.com This article originally appeared at Thoughts From The Frontline.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload

AP Photo/Pavel Golovkin Part of Russia's pain is due to dramatically declining oil prices. And part of it is due to international sanctions against the country. This cheese story is about the latter part. Back when the EU, Australia, Norway, Canada, and the US placed economic sanctions on Russia, Russia responded by banning a bunch of imports from all of them. That ban included a lot of food — meat, dairy, vegetables, and so on. Unfortunately, people really like food — especially cheese. So in Russia, they've devised ways to circumvent this inconvenient ban when it comes to the good stuff. Corner stores have become black-market cheese dealers. "A sort of speakeasy scene for French and Italian cheeses evolved which was akin to buying drugs from 1980s bodegas in Brooklyn," one Moscow banker told Business Insider. "First, you walk into the bodega slowly, trying to wipe any suspicious look from your face. Then you pretend to look around the shelves for a while until the clerk recognizes you, at which point you and the clerk make eye contact and establish that metaphysical connection that signifies to both of you 'I'm here to cop an ounce.' You wait until there are no customers around, approach the clerk. He takes you to the back room, shows you the goods, you haggle over the price, shove the bag in your pocket, hand over the cash and bounce. Except here you're leaving the store with a ball of fresh Italian mozzarella..." Or some amazing camembert, or brie ... You get the picture. All this suffering, however, isn't necessarily making Russians dislike Putin. On the contrary, says our source, they're buying Putin's message that the country's economic woes can be blamed on a Western plot to hurt Russia. "If you look at the way the elite that emerged from the '90s made their money, you'll realize that they essentially capitalized on ignorance by cheaply scooping up newly-privatized equity from an uneducated public," the banker said. "Physical certificates of stock were often exchanged on the street for bottles of vodka and that's not an exaggeration. In that sense, Russians are much less inclined to side with financial logic and more inclined to buy Mr. Putin's emotional message." As long as that message remains, Russians will stay on Putin's side.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons"Time is on My Side," The Rolling Stones It’s only after the animals are out of the barn that investors want to close the door. This means attempting to make most of the money from participating in common stocks, but somehow regularly going to cash in the worst declines. Consider the aftermath of the 2007-09 financial meltdown and bear market when asset allocator’s first looked to those active equity funds which weathered the 2008 storm the best. You want to make money in stocks, but “you want to be free.” So it seems that every time there is a substantial bear market in U.S. stocks, market timing pops to the center of the investing conversation. At Smead Capital Management, our 34 years of market observation has yet to find anyone or any system which did this successfully. The chart below shows why “time is on my side” for the long-duration investor: Smead Capital Management Once market participants decide they want to be involved in a bull market, they have a tendency to seek out the most exciting growth companies of the era. Warren Buffett cautioned, “Investors should remember that excitement and expense are their enemies.” Fama-French, Bauman-Conover-Miller, David Dreman and Francis Nicholson all proved academically that the cheapest stocks outperformed the average and the most expensive stocks over one-year and multiple-year time periods. At Smead Capital Management, we strive to be long duration investors in the shares of companies which are cheaper both quantitatively and are qualitatively above average in significant ways. We expect over time that investors will “come runnin’ back” into ownership of businesses which reach our eight criteria for stock selection. It takes contrarianism and patience. One of the best examples of the combination of cheapness and quality we’ve seen was four years ago in the pharmaceutical/biotech industry of the S&amp;P 500 Index. In the key areas of profit consistency, free cash flow and balance sheet, these were stars. And they were priced as if they’d never have another new product. In case anyone wonders, the humility and contentiousness of these kinds of situations can take three to five years to play out. We were fortunate to have some other parts of our portfolio succeeding for us back then and a loyal/patient group of long-duration investors along for the ride. In the current environment, investor’s “heart desires” are to have the comfort of being in every sector and every company of the S&amp;P 500 Index, so that they are sure to have some winning tickets in the horse race. They are “lighting up the town” and seem able to benefit from the cost advantage inherent in indexing. For those who don’t have access to a high-margin-of-safety/long-duration investing discipline or the predilection to practice one themselves, owning numerous un-meritorious and over-priced companies mixed in with a minority of worthy ones provides a minimally adequate way to participate for the long term. How many investors send their kids off for higher education with instructions to accept way less than excellent long-term academic results from the least expensive college? We believe that “time is on the side” of the long-duration investor who applies quantitative and qualitative screening and the long-term holding of common stocks. When the S&amp;P 500 Index stumbles, like it did after the tech bubble broke in 2000, “we’ll be around” and expect many index investors are “going to come back baby.” Remember what John Maynard Keynes said about investing, “[Investing] is the one sphere of life and activity where victory, security and success is always to the minority and never to the majority. When you find any one agreeing with you, change your mind.” Passive investing in the U.S. large-cap equity space appears to no longer be in the minority as this year’s overwhelming money flows have proven. We are not bothered, even if the current trend continues, because our long-duration goals include “victory, security and success.” This article originally appeared at Smead Capital.  Copyright 2014. Follow Smead Capital on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Eggs have gotten a bad reputation over the years, but research by scientists and nutritionists shows they have tremendous positive effects on your health. Produced by Matthew Stuart Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Wikimedia CommonsWith 2015 almost here, this week we pose and respond to 10 key stock market questions for 2015. Look for more on these and other topics throughout the year. We bring 2014 to a close with this Weekly Market Commentary. Look for our next edition on January 5, 2015. Happy New Year! Q1: Does the drop in oil prices mean a sharp slowdown in growth is coming? We don’t think so. Overall, we estimate that the $50-plus drop in the price of WTI Crude Oil since June 2014 may boost U.S. gross domestic product by roughly 0.5%. The drop in oil has many beneficiaries, including consumers (who save about $1.4 billion for each 10 cent drop in gasoline prices), airlines, and manufacturers who benefit from access to cheaper fuel. Although some overseas economies<U+2009>—<U+2009>Russia in particular<U+2009>—<U+2009>are hurt by lower oil prices, oil importers such as China and Japan benefit. Lower oil prices will slow the U.S. energy boom and capital investment in the sector but will not stop it. Commodity-linked investments may be more volatile and less liquid than the underlying instruments or measures, and their value may be affected by the performance of the overall commodities baskets, as well as weather, disease, and regulatory developments. *As noted in the Outlook 2015: In Transit, LPL Financial Research expects GDP to expand at a rate of 3% or higher, which matches the average growth rate of the past 50 years. This is based on contributions from consumer spending, business capital spending, and housing, which are poised to advance at historically average or better growth rates in 2015. Net exports and the government sector should trail behind. Q2: Will the Federal Reserve (Fed) end the bull market? This is unlikely. Although the likely start of interest rate hikes in late 2015 may contribute to an increase in stock market volatility, history has shown that stocks have subsequently performed well when the Fed started to hike rates in response to better growth. During the nine economic expansions over the past 50 years, the S&amp;P 500 has performed well around the first Fed rate hike, suggesting the Fed is unlikely to derail the market next year. The first rate hike has historically come only about halfway through economic cycles and well before bull markets have ended. (See our Outlook 2015: In Transit publication for details.) Q3: Will valuations prevent U.S. stocks from a seventh straight positive year?  Valuations for the S&amp;P 500 remain slightly above the long-term average price-to-earnings ratio (PE) of between 16 and 17 times trailing earnings, indicating a slightly expensive market. However, given that valuations have a poor record of timing market tops, and considering our positive earnings outlook, we do not expect above-average valuations to lead to an end of the bull market. As noted in our Outlook 2015: In Transit publication, we expect high-single-digit earnings growth to drive stock prices higher next year, supported by 3%-plus U.S. gross domestic product (GDP) growth, stable profit margins, and low interest rates, accompanied by little change in PEs.* The PE ratio (price-to-earnings ratio) is a valuation of a company’s current share price compared with its per-share earnings. A high PE suggests that investors are expecting high earnings growth in the future, compared with companies with a lower PE. Q4: Is a potential European recession a risk to U.S. stocks? Europe is teetering on the brink of another recession as the Eurozone struggles to return to reasonable growth, which leads us to favor U.S. markets over developed foreign markets, despite prospects for quantitative easing from the European Central Bank (ECB) next year. But we do not expect the continent’s malaise to disrupt the U.S. stock market much, if at all, in 2015. Even without help from Europe, we expect the global economy to grow slightly faster in 2015 than it did in 2014 (when Europe helped very little). U.S. companies have managed the slowdown in Europe well thus far, helped by the relatively limited amount of revenue (about 15%) derived from the Eurozone. (See our two-part Weekly Market Commentary, “Don’t Fight the ECB?” from September 15 and 22, 2014.) Q5: Will EM outperform the U.S. in 2015 after underperforming for four years? This is possible, but we would expect outperformance to come more from the latter part of the year. We continue to favor U.S. stocks over emerging markets (EM) as 2015 begins, but compelling valuations, better growth prospects, and the potential for more stimulus efforts should set up a very attractive entry point for EM next year. We would like to see evidence of sustained improvement in relative performance compared with the U.S. before becoming more positive on EM, which could come from stable oil prices and a pickup in earnings growth. (See our Weekly Market Commentary, “Emerging Markets Opportunity Still Emerging,” from November 17, 2014.) International and emerging markets investing involves special risks, such as currency fluctuation and political instability, and may not be suitable for all investors. Q6: Will Washington help (or hurt) the stock market? We expect the policy environment to be broadly supportive in 2015, and we believe that Republican control of Congress could have meaningful impact. We see tax reform as possible, albeit piecemeal, which the market should welcome. The Affordable Care Act (ACA) is unlikely to be repealed, but it will likely be changed, which could create investment opportunities in healthcare. Bank regulations may be eased. Energy policy may encourage faster development and more exports. And 2015 is the third year of the presidential cycle, which has historically been good for stocks. We also do not expect a disruptive debt limit fight this spring. (See our Weekly Market Commentary, “Favorable Policy Environment for Stocks in 2015,” from December 8, 2014.) Q7: After topping all equity sectors in 2014, will healthcare deliver again in 2015? Healthcare has been the top-performing sector in 2014 with a nearly 30% return (according to the S&amp;P 500 Health Care Index), and we expect another good year in 2015. The sector has benefited from robust innovation that has driven significant biotech and, to a lesser extent, pharmaceutical gains. New development and increased demand related to broader insurance coverage under the ACA have helped drive double-digit earnings gains each quarter this year and will likely do so again in the fourth quarter, based on Thomson Reuters consensus estimates. We find the sector’s combination of strong earnings, technical momentum, and still reasonable valuations to be potentially attractive as the business cycle ages. Investing in specialty markets and sectors, such as healthcare or financials, carries additional risks, such as economic, political, or regulatory developments that may affect many or all issuers in that sector. Q8: Does the sharp sell-off in energy present an attractive buying opportunity? Despite significant underperformance, we suggest patience for several reasons. Neither OPEC nor U.S. producers have shown interest in reducing supply. The U.S. supply overhang remains significant. It will take some time for demand to respond to lower prices. Valuations are not yet compelling, given the dramatic reduction in sector earnings estimates as oil prices fell and industry capital spending plans were cut back. And from a technical perspective, after the long-standing price range between $80 and $110 failed to hold, the latest bounce has not provided enough technical evidence for us to forecast a sustainable turn in relative performance. Q9: Will small caps stage a comeback? We think so, but we do not expect it to be lasting. The good news for small caps is that they are more U.S. focused than their large cap counterparts and valuations have become more reasonable after recent underperformance (though they are still a bit high). Small caps should also benefit from a continued healthy credit environment, as small companies are more credit dependent. As 2015 progresses, we expect a possible leadership shift toward large caps<U+2009>—<U+2009>one that may possibly be sustained during the latter part of the business cycle. Small cap stocks may be subject to a higher degree of risk than more established companies’ securities. The illiquidity of the small cap market may adversely affect the value of these investments. Q10: Will active management begin to add value in 2015? Despite several disappointing years, we expect active managers may perform better in 2015. Managers in general should benefit from improved performance from the cyclical equities that they tend to favor, and from corresponding weaker returns for the most interest rate sensitive sectors that tend to be under-owned by fund managers as bond market strength possibly abates. Potentially increased stock market volatility should help provide more opportunities. Greater dispersion among individual stocks is likely to increase the potential opportunities for active managers. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn employee counts Russian ruble banknotes at a private company's office in KrasnoyarskMOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia's ruble stabilised on Wednesday, as exporters selling foreign currency countered the effect of a ratings agency saying it could downgrade Russia's sovereign debt to 'junk' status as soon as next month. At 1310 GMT (8.10 a.m. ET), the ruble was around 0.3 percent weaker against the dollar at 54.65 . It lost 0.6 percent versus the euro to 66.85  but traded in narrow ranges against both currencies in thin afternoon trading. The ruble has swung back and forth wildly in recent weeks, with intraday moves of more than 10 percent at times, the widest fluctuations since the 1998 financial crisis. Late on Tuesday, Standard and Poor's revised Russia's credit ratings to creditwatch negative from negative, warning a deterioration in the country's monetary flexibility could lead the agency to put its sovereign rating in 'speculative' territory as soon as mid-January. "A review of the ratings in foreign and local currency to 'junk' level threatens to strengthen outflows from portfolio investments and to pressure the ruble," Dmitry Polevoy, chief economist for Russia and CIS at ING Bank, said in a note. "Therefore, the near-term prospects for the ruble remain highly uncertain." Central bank plans announced on Wednesday to start lending money in foreign currencies to companies and banks willing to use their foreign loans as collateral did little to help the currency. The ruble's decline was checked by exporters selling part of their foreign-currency earnings, both to meet tax payments due before the end of the month and in response to a government order from Tuesday forcing certain state exporters to start selling hard currency. "It's more or less calm at the moment ... exporters are selling foreign currency, perhaps not entirely of their own free will," said Pyotr Neimyshev, a forex trader at Okritie bank. "We could end the year at around 52-53 rubles per dollar, but after the holidays (Jan. 1-11), I don't rule out that foreign currency will strengthen. I wouldn't leave long positions in the ruble over the holidays."  (Reporting by Lidia Kelly, Alexander Winning and Vladimir Abramov; Editing by Thomas Grove and Robin Pomeroy) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe exterior of the New York Stock Exchange is pictured with a Christmas tree in front of it in the Manhattan Borough of New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures were little changed on Wednesday, after a five-day winning streak pushed the Dow and S&amp;P 500 to new closing records. * S&amp;P 500 e-minis were up 1 points, or 0.05 percent, with 18,536 contracts changing hands. * Nasdaq 100 e-minis were up 3.25 points, or 0.08 percent, in volume of 3,767 contracts. * Dow e-minis &lt;1YMc1&gt; were up 13 points, or 0.07 percent, with 3,129 contracts changing hands. * The Dow closed above 18,000 for the first time ever and the S&amp;P 500 ended at its 51st record of the year after an unexpectedly strong report on U.S. economic growth. The 51 new closing highs for the year are the most since 1995 and fourth most in history. * Equity markets will operate on a shortened trading schedule Wednesday, closing at 1 p.m. (1800 GMT) ahead of the Christmas Day holiday on Thursday. Volume is expected to be light, which could exacerbate volatility. * The benchmark S&amp;P index has risen 5.5 percent in its latest rally, its best 5-day run since December 2011, fueled by a commitment by the U.S. Federal Reserve last week to take a "patient" approach toward raising interest rates and solid economic data. * Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp &lt;8316.T&gt; will buy Citigroup Inc's &lt;c.n&gt; Japanese retail banking operations in October for about 40 billion yen ($330 million), people with knowledge of the matter said. * U.S. surgical implant maker Stryker Corp &lt;syk.n&gt; is planning a takeover offer for British medical device maker Smith &amp; Nephew &lt;sn.l&gt; that may come within weeks, Bloomberg reported, citing people familiar with the matter. U.S.-listed shares of Smith &amp; Nephew &lt;snn.n&gt; were down 3.5 percent to $36.70 in premarket. * European stocks were slightly higher in a shortened session ahead of the Christmas break, gaining ground for the seventh day in a row while Asian stocks gained in the wake of the U.S. GDP report. [.EU]   (Reporting by Chuck Mikolajczak; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
TBIEverything has been going right for the US economy lately. Initial weekly unemployment claims fell to 280,000 from 289,000 a week ago. This was lower than the 290,000 expected by economists. "There were no special factors impacting this week's initial claims," the Department of Labor said. The 4-week moving average declined to 290,250 from 298,750 a week ago. "The four-week moving average of initial claims has been below the 300k threshold for over three months, a sign that involuntary separations are at their nadir," Nomura economists said ahead of the report. Continuing claims climbed to 2.403 million from 2.378 million a week ago. Jobless claims correlated inversely with new nonfarm payrolls. In other words, falling claims is a good sign for job growth. Check out this chart from Bloomberg chief economist Michael McDonough. @m_mcdonough FREE AppDownload
Antimicrobial-resistant diseases are a big deal. Drug-resistent superbugs threaten to kill millions of people every year. This isn't a future hypothetical, either. It's already started. The current rate in the US is about 2 million people infected, and 23,000 deaths per year from drug-resistent forms of disease, according to the CDC.  And this isn't just a medical or scientific issue. It's also an economic issue. Jim O'Neill, a former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management who now works for the Brussels-based think tank Bruegel, has been looking into this question. He wrote about how it's going at Project Syndicate last week:  By 2020, if we allow resistance to rise by 40%, global GDP will be 0.5% smaller than it otherwise would have been. By 2030, it will be 1.4% smaller. By 2050, the economic shortfall will reach 3%. The accumulated loss of global output over the next 35 years will total $100 trillion – more than one and a half times annual world GDP today. The impact will be worst in dense emerging market economies like India, China, and Nigeria. This calculation, he notes, is pretty narrow, and doesn't include a lot of the second order effects, like the living standard decreases from a world without effective antibiotics. It also doesn't take into account surgeries and other medical procedures that rely on antibiotics in a infection-prevention capacity. "The broad-brush research we conducted shows that such treatments – many of which would not be possible without effective antibiotics – add around 4% of benefit in terms of GDP," O'Neill writes. The solutions to this, he says, are varied, and research is ongoing. There are the little things: not relying on antibiotics for minor things, washing our hands more often, etc. But then there are the big things: This is a looming, but still pretty far off problem. There's currently not a huge economic incentive for pharmaceutical companies to invest in the research to stop, or stem the tide, of this trend.  FREE AppDownload
Mark Lennihan/APMeredith WhitneyThe problems just keep piling up for the famed financial-crisis-era bank analyst Meredith Whitney and her hedge fund. In a story published late Tuesday, Bloomberg's Max Abelson reported that a hedge fund connected to Michael Platt's BlueCrest Capital Management is suing Whitney's American Revival Fund. Reportedly, Platt's BlueCrest Capital Opportunities brought the lawsuit seeking to get back its $46 million stake in Whitney's fund. Abelson reported last Friday that the fund was asking for its money back. And here's the real kicker — the suit was brought in Bermuda, which Whitney's attorney said was "contrary explicitly to a contractual agreement that any lawsuits or legal disputes would be resolved here in New York," writes Abelson. “The suit shows how quickly relations have soured since last year, when Platt helped Witney […] start her firm,” writes Abelson. This legal dispute is the latest development in the string of problems that Whitney and her fund have seen. Additionally, her fund is reportedly down 11% through last month and her Madison Avenue office is on the market. And on top of all that, the hedge fund's CEO Brittani Caetano and SAC Capital veteran and cofounder Stephen Schwartz have left the firm.  To get all the details, check out the full story on Bloomberg Businessweek. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonJonesTrading's Dave Lutz has what traders are chatting about right now: Good Morning!   No surprise, but Light volume abounds, with Germany, Italy, and France (1/2day) all closed - UK financial markets close in a few minutes, and their volumes are running 70% light as the FTSE gains 20bp, led by Defensive names.    Over in Asia, Russia’s MICEX is up 60bp, and the Rouble holding steady despite S&amp;P warning yesterday – The Nikkei gained 1.2% after their 3day weekend, but the Shanghai was hit again for 1.9% led by Brokers and Banks (Chatter has some brokers raising margin requirements as the government tries to cool off the recent rally).   The Aussie Market gained, despite the price of Ore plunging overnight to fresh 5Y lows (China Analyst Comments), as the Miners managed to close higher on chatter of project cancellations.   Treasuries are not recovering yesterday’s losses, which accelerated after the 5Y auction demand came in light - (7Y today).   Bunds are not losing much of their bid, still yielding under 60bp as demand for safety continues from Europe.   The DXY is weaker, surrendering some of yesterday’s gains against Euro and Yen – a Tailwind for commodities.  That said, Oil is dropping fast right now, as last night API showed a build of 5mln, expectations were for a draw.  We have DOE Inventories today – Expectations for a 1.8 million drawdown (WSJ).   Natty is off small into Inventory data later (pulled forward from tomorrow), while Gold remains under slight pressure - GLD had the biggest drawdown in 18months yesterday.    Scheduled Catalysts today include Weekly Jobless Claims at 8:30, DOE data for Crude at 10:30, Natty Gas Inventory Data at 12, Auction of 7Y notes at 1.   US and Canadian Equity closes at 1pmET, US Credit at 2pmET.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, Nov. 5, 2010.US presidents don't usually talk about stocks. But when they do, everyone listens. Because, who wouldn't love to remind everyone that the President of the United States, like us, is terrible at making stock market calls. However, it turns out that President Barack Obama made one of the most perfectly timed market calls in the history of market calls. In a July note to clients, Goldman Sachs' David Kostin remembers that time Obama talked about stocks. From the note: Some investors may remember Obama’s previous equity valuation comment from March 3, 2009 when the S&amp;P 500 traded at 696: ”On the other hand, what you're now seeing is profit and earnings ratios are starting to get to the point where buying stocks is a potentially good deal if you've got a long-term perspective on it.” Since his observation, the S&amp;P 500 has soared by 185% and this week reached a new all-time high of 1988. March 3 was six days before the S&amp;P 500 hit an intraday low of 666. This was a time when naysayers were saying Obama's radicalism was killing the stock market. On Tuesday, the S&amp;P closed at a record 2,082. That's a solid 200% gain in a little under 6 years. That was a pretty extraordinary call. Yahoo Finance So, what now? Unfortunately, we don't pay Obama to advise on the tactical asset allocation decisions for our investment portfolios. He did, however, offer some long-term wisdom during a July interview with CNBC's Steve Liesman. “My estimation is you've got a lot of savvy investors out there," he said. "You got people who recognize that what goes up can come down as well. I'll leave it up to them to make determinations about whether valuations and stock prices are too high. I'm more concerned about the day-to-day fundamentals. And if we get those fundamentals right, then I'm pretty confident that we can do very well in the next decade.” FREE AppDownload
via The TelegraphThe £2 coin could come under attack by Chinese forgers, it has been warned. The coins which are bi-metallic, containing gold and silver components, were thought to be more difficult to forge than simpler designs such as the £1 coin. But now a major seizure of €500,000 of euro coins has raised fears that Britain's £2 - with it's relatively higher value - could be in the forger's sights. Italian detectives stumbled across the treasure trove of contraband currency while inspecting a consignment of metal pipes in the port of Naples. The seizure was one of the most significant haul of fake coins in European history. The quality of the coins suggested that the gang is producing imitations of such high quality that they would even be accepted in vending machines, potentially costing businesses thousands in lost revenue. Fake coins do not usually exercise authorities as much as the production of illicit banknotes because of their relatively low value and the overheads associated with their production. One forgery investigator told The Times: “Counterfeit coins are not of great interest to most jurisdictions, and certainly not on any list of priorities.” “Many types of counterfeit goods follow this route, China to Italy for further distribution, and it seems an entirely feasible enterprise.” A spokesman for the Royal Mint stressed that forgeries of £2 coins are not yet though to be commonplace. "A bi-colour coin is much harder to counterfeit because replicating the two metal components, the inner and outer, is significantly more difficult than a single component coin. Forgers would also require a highly sophisticated press to produce bi-colour coins," said the spokesman. "The coin detector mechanism of vending machines and self-service check-outs can detect the two different metal components, in addition to the conductivity, thickness and diameter of the coin." "The addition of edge lettering is also very hard to counterfeit, and some circulating £2 coin designs also include a latent feature in their elements which is difficult to replicate."  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBuildings are pictured in Beijing's central business districtBEIJING (Reuters) - China will simplify currency rules and step up credit support for firms investing overseas, the cabinet said on Wednesday, It was the latest move by the government to tackle excess factory capacity at home and help local firms grow globally. The government will cut red-tape for firms investing abroad, allowing them to exchange money directly at banks, no longer needing to register with the authorities prior to such deals. It will also widen the financing channel to help firms "go out" with more bank support for major equipment makers, the cabinet said, calling for "diversified use of foreign exchange reserves" in the process. Increased outbound investment helps China export surplus capacity and makes Chinese products, especially equipment products, more competitive internationally, the cabinet said. The government has been encouraging outbound direct investment by local firms to help slow down the rapid build-up of the country's foreign exchange reserves and help improve local firms' competitiveness in the global market. The government will also simplify its approval procedure for banks to set up branches overseas, and for firms to list shares abroad and pursue mergers and acquisitions, it said. The geographical limit on issuing yuan-denominated bonds by domestic firms and banks in overseas markets will be abolished. In September, the Ministry of Commerce simplified rules to  make it easier for domestic companies to invest overseas. China's outbound investment by non-financial firms hit  $89.8 billion in the first 11 months of 2014, up l1.9 percent from a year earlier. China drew $106.2 billion in foreign direct investment (FDI) in the first 11 months.  (Reporting by Kevin Yao Editing by Jeremy Gaunt.) FREE AppDownload
WikimediaBoris Yeltsin, then-president and Putin, then-prime minister, in December 1999Vladimir Putin may be the wild card in world affairs right now, but he didn't gain that influence overnight. The Russian President's ascension to power is filled with spies, armed conflicts, oligarchs, oil and (of course) judo. So here's how a onetime "nobody" climbed up the ranks to become the "World's Most Powerful Person." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tami ChappellGeneral Manager Brandon Delaney looks up at the marquee sign after the announcement that the Plaza Theatre would be showing the movie "The Interview" beginning Christmas Day in Atlanta, Georgia December 23, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. US Markets. The US stock markets will close at 1:00 p.m. ET on Wednesday and they will be closed all day Thursday. So, get ready for low trading volumes and not a lot of activity. Jobs Data Coming. At 8:30 a.m. ET, we'll get the latest weekly tally of initial weekly jobless claims. Economists estimate the claims climbed to 290,000 from 289,000 a week ago. "The four-week moving average of initial claims has been below the 300k threshold for over three months, a sign that involuntary separations are at their nadir," Nomura economists said. Mortgage Applications Are Up. According to the Mortgage Bankers Association, the volume of mortgage applications climbed by 0.9% during the week ending December 19. While this number is very volatile, it is nevertheless reasonably encouraging news after disappointing reports on new home sales, existing home sales, and pending home sales. Markets Aren't Doing Much. US futures are flat. In Europe, Britain's FTSE is flat, Spain's IBEX is flat, and France's CAC 40 is down 0.4%. Japan's Nikkei closed up 1.2%. Traders Smell Trouble Ahead. As markets keep grinding to new record highs, traders are worried about the bouts of volatility we've been experiencing. "The series of short-term rallies and selloffs has revived memories of events before the 'Black Monday' crash of October, 1987, and more recently the global crisis of the past decade," Reuters warns. Larry McDonald, senior director and head of U.S. strategy at Newedge in New York added: "Our systemic risk indicators are showing a very high scoring in terms of risk. I think we are anywhere from two to eight weeks away from the big one – a fall of 10% or more." 3 Risks That Could Derail The Santa Claus Rally. The year isn't over yet. Charles Schwab's Jeffrey Kleintop identified three risks that could throw off the rally: European bond-buying uncertainty, softer global trade data, and energy sector job weakness. Troubled Airbag President Is Out. "Takata Corp , the air bag maker embroiled in millions of recalls worldwide, said its president Stefan Stocker would step down and its chairman would assume the role to unify the company's response to the crisis," Reuters' Mari Saito reported. American Airlines Says Profits Will Be Just Fine. "American Airlines Group Inc said Tuesday that it plans to pay flight attendants an additional four percentage points on top of raises already averaging 10 percent, thanks to profits that have strengthened as oil prices have collapsed," Reuters' Jeffrey Dastin reported. "In a letter to employees, Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker said "very strong" results for 2014 would allow the carrier to lock in substantial wage hikes for the flight attendants." Uber CEO Indicted In South Korea. "South Korean prosecutors have indicted the local subsidiary of U.S. taxi-hailing service provider Uber and Uber CEO Travis Kalanick for violating a law governing public transport," Reuters said. Sony Will Release "The Interview" After All. The controversial film will show in more than 200 independent theatres across the United States.  FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - American Airlines Group Inc said Tuesday that it plans to pay flight attendants an additional four percentage points on top of raises already averaging 10 percent, thanks to profits that have strengthened as oil prices have collapsed. In a letter to employees, Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker said "very strong" results for 2014 would allow the carrier to lock in substantial wage hikes for the flight attendants. Other work groups would also see improvements in their raises - once their respective contracts are ratified. Plummeting oil prices have slashed costs at the world's largest airline by passenger traffic, which is poised to save more than its competitors because it did not hedge against prices rising. Unions have called on Parker to tie employee compensation to the company's performance, but Parker has opposed profit-sharing, practiced by Delta Air Lines, United Airlines and Southwest Airlines. "There are many ways to share success, but when it comes to compensation, we believe it is best to reward (workers) with industry leading wage rates – not lower wages supplemented by compensation that varies with airline profitability," he wrote in the letter, obtained by Reuters. The pay increases show how seriously American views labor relations, which have often emerged as a stumbling block in other airline merger deals, as it joins its operations with US Airways a year into the carriers' merger. Hourly rates for flight attendants will be seven percent higher than those at Delta or United, Parker said in the letter. A separate letter from the airline cited an hourly rate of $24.18 for first-year flight attendants. Yet the announcement also placed American's other workers under pressure to conclude contracts, a prerequisite for their raises. The carrier hopes to avoid the fate of other merged airlines that struggled for years to reach deals for all their workers. Pilots are the next group up for a contract, and the company said in a third letter Tuesday that it had ended negotiations with them, leaving them to choose between a final offer or arbitration as early as February 2015. The letter added that if pilots accept the offer prior to Jan. 3, higher pay rates would be effective retroactively as of Dec. 2, 2014, rather than after the agreement. The company's proposal would raise pilots' pay about 23 percent upon signing and then three percent for the next two years, compared to smaller gains they would get under an arbitrated contract, the company said in the letter. The airline has also proposed various changes to work rules, some of which have been sticking points in the negotiations. The Allied Pilots Association, which represents American's pilots, said its board will convene on Jan. 2 and 3 to decide a course of action.   (Reporting By Jeffrey Dastin; Editing by Christian Plumb) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA completed house is seen behind the earthworks of a home currently under construction in Brandywine(Reuters) - Applications for U.S. home mortgages rose last week as activity picked up and rates fell, an industry group said on Wednesday. The Mortgage Bankers Association said its seasonally adjusted index of mortgage application activity, which includes both refinancing and home purchase demand, rose 0.9 percent in the week ended December 19. The MBA's seasonally adjusted index of refinancing applications rose 1.1 percent, while the gauge of loan requests for home purchases, a leading indicator of home sales, rose 1.3 percent. Fixed 30-year mortgage rates averaged 4.02 percent in the week, down 4 basis points from 4.06 percent the week before. The 4.02-percent rate is the lowest since May 2013, MBA said. The survey covers over 75 percent of U.S. retail residential mortgage applications, according to MBA.   (Reporting By David Gaffen; Editing by Diane Craft) FREE AppDownload
ReutersRussian President Vladimir Putin dabs his lip during his annual end-of-year news conference in Moscow, December 18, 2014.Russia has begun bailing out the debt of its private and state-run companies and banks, which is denominated in dollars, according to Reuters. Banks and companies owe a total of $600 billion in foreign debt, of which $100 billion is due next year. The value of the ruble has fallen so far, however, that those companies can no longer afford to pay back that debt. The ruble fell 0.3% this morning to just over 54 rubles to the dollar. A year ago a ruble was 32 to the dollar. The bailout will not help Russia's bond rating, which suffered a blow yesterday when the credit rating agency Standard &amp; Poor’s said there was at least a 50% chance it would cut Russia's status to lower than BBB- or "junk" status. S&amp;P said: "We are reviewing our assessment of Russia’s monetary flexibility and the impact of the weakening economy on its financial system." The ruble is falling because the price of oil is falling too. Russia's economy depends on oil. So falling oil prices are devastating Russia's export economy, threatening $79 billion from its export revenue, as The Telegraph noted this morning: Should the current price of Brent, at around $60 per barrel, be sustained over the next 12 months, that would result in Russia's export income from crude dropping to $95bn, from $174bn in 2013. That combination — falling oil prices dragging down the ruble, and increased debt payments as everything not denominated in the ruble becomes staggeringly expensive — has triggered a high-inflation/recession scenario in Russia, Reuters says: But the economic crisis in Russia's heavily oil-dependent economy goes wider. Moody's ratings agency said late on Tuesday that it expected Russia's GDP to contract by 5.5 percent in 2015 and 3 percent in 2016, under the effect of the plunge in oil prices and the ruble's slide. "These developments will likely lead to a severe deterioration in the operating environment for Russian corporates, namely higher inflation, unemployment and debt-servicing costs as well as lower domestic demand, resulting in a deeper and more protracted decline in domestic economic activity than previously anticipated," Moody's said. Russia has already spent about $96 billion of its foreign exchange and gold reserves trying to prop up the value of the ruble. It has $414 billion left, Reuters says. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersDAF trucks are pictured  at the booth of Dutch truck maker DAF at the IAA truck show in Hanover,(Reuters) - Top European truckmakers operated a cartel for 14 years to delay the progress of emissions-reducing technology, the Financial Times reported, citing leaked documents in a European Commission investigation. The newspaper said that one of the documents states that DAF Trucks, Daimler, Iveco, Scania, Volvo and MAN "agreed the timing and price increase levels for the introduction of new emission technologies" to comply with Euro 3 rules on nitrogen oxide and other emissions in 2000. (http://on.ft.com/1vanmz5) A spokeswoman for the European Commission, which announced last month it had sent charges to truckmakers it accused of a long-running and serious price-fixing cartel, said it would not comment on the leaked document. Known as a statement of objections, it lists the accusations against the firms. Daimler, Volvo and Iveco parent CNH Industrial all confirmed receipt last month of the statements of objections, together with Volkswagen-controlled Scania and MAN. European Union officials raided several truckmakers in 2011 to start an antitrust investigation. It had found collusion dating back to January 1997 and ending in January 2011, the Financial Times said. "All competitors participated directly and throughout the full duration in all the constituent elements of the cartel," the FT quoted one of the leaked documents as saying. Companies can be fined up to 10 percent of their annual revenue if the Commission concludes that there is sufficient evidence of an infringement of EU rules barring cartels and the abuse of market dominance. Germany's Daimler said last week it was setting aside an additional 600 million euros ($740 million) to cover potential costs related to the antitrust investigation by the European Commission. (Reporting by Ankush Sharma in Bangalore; additional reporting by Alastair Macdonald in Brussels; Editing by Grant McCool and Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Yoshikazu TsunoAsian markets rose on December 24, 2014, supported by record gains in US share markets, with Tokyo opening 1.17% higherHong Kong (AFP) - Asian markets rose on Wednesday, supported by record gains in US share markets after stellar growth figures from the world's top economy. Tokyo opened 1.17 percent higher, Hong Kong added 0.15 percent, Seoul gained 0.38 and Sydney rose 0.22 percent in morning trade. Shanghai rebounded slightly after a three percent drop the previous day, edging up 0.22 percent. Trade was thin ahead of the Christmas holiday, with half days in Hong Kong and Australia's financial markets. Figures showing US gross domestic product (GDP) grew at 5.0 percent in the third quarter -- up from the previous estimate of 3.9 percent and well above analyst predictions of 4.3 percent -- lit a fire under world equities. Wall Street hit fresh records after last week's "Santa Claus rally," with the Dow stock index closing above 18,000 for the first time ever and the S&amp;P 500 setting a new high. It also supported the dollar, which advanced on renewed hopes the US Federal Reserve will raise interest rates before other leading central banks in mid-2015. "It was another stellar day for US equities with a much better than expected revised GDP reading triggering the gains," said Stan Shamu at trading house IG Markets. "The GDP reading also underpinned the greenback as it rallied against the Aussie, euro, yen and sterling." The US dollar was at 120.68 yen early Wednesday, compared with 120.71 yen in New York Tuesday afternoon. The euro bought $1.2173 and 146.96 yen against $1.2171 and 146.94 yen in US trade. In China, shares clawed back some gains after heading a slump in Asian markets Tuesday, with banks leading one of the biggest percentage falls of the year in Shanghai. Shares had jumped more than 20 percent since Beijing cut interest rates last month, rising above the 3,000 mark for the first time in three and a half years. In Hong Kong, shares in China-based shopping mall developer Dalian Wanda added 0.64 percent after closing lower on its first day of trading after a record-breaking IPO. In Japan, shares in struggling Skymark Airlines fell 2.82 percent on news Airbus was moving closer to filing a lawsuit over a failed $2.2 billion jet order. Sony was up 2.02 percent after its Hollywood studio said it would screen "The Interview" in some US cinemas on Christmas Day, after originally cancelling the launch following a crippling cyber attack. Oil prices edged lower in thin pre-holiday trade but analysts said losses were curbed by upbeat sentiment over robust US economic data.  US benchmark West Texas Intermediate for February delivery fell eight cents to $57.04, while Brent crude for February eased 13 cents to $61.56. Gold was at $1,176.90 an ounce, compared with $1,175.75 late Tuesday. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/BeawihartaChildren try to walk through a flooded street at Kampung Melayu residential area in Jakarta, December 23, 2014. Torrential rains that have continued in Indonesia in recent days have widened the number of flooded areas that include Jakarta and Bandung, a local newspaper said on Tuesday.Hello! It's Christmas Eve. But first, here's what you need to know. 1. Sony Pictures has reversed its decision to pull "The Interview" from all theatres and said the film will now play in more than 200 cinemas around the US on Christmas Day, a move that was praised by the White House. 2. Standard &amp; Poor's said there's at least a 50% chance that Russia's credit rating will be lowered below investment grade, also known as junk, within 90 days. 3. South Korean officials charged Uber CEO Travis Kalanick and the head of its domestic partner with illegally operating rental cars as taxis, Bloomberg reports. 4. Former US President George H. W. Bush was admitted to a Texas hospital Tuesday night suffering shortness of breath. 5. Coca-Cola is reportedly planning to cut as many as 2,000 jobs globally in the coming weeks, in addition to getting rid of executive perks and holiday parties, as part of a plan to save $3 billion in its annual budget. 6.The Navy SEAL who says he shot Osama Bin Laden, 38-year-old Robert O'Neill, is reportedly under investigation for leaking secrets. 7. Australian police arrested two men in Sydney on Wednesday, with one allegedly in possession of documents connected to a planned terrorist attack on government targets. 8. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe was reelected by parliament on Wednesday, paving the way for him to launch a new cabinet with a new defence minister. 9. The United Nations' disaster chief has warned of more natural catastrophes in the coming decades.  10. At least 100 people were stranded by floods at a resort in a Malaysian national park, which is experiencing its heaviest rainfall in more than four decades.And finally ...  An Italian circus is in trouble for disguising chow chow puppies as pandas by dying them black and white. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru HanaiTOKYO (Reuters) - Takata Corp &lt;7312.T&gt;, the air bag maker embroiled in millions of recalls worldwide, said its president Stefan Stocker would step down and its chairman would assume the role to unify the company's response to the crisis. Stocker, who joined Takata last year, will remain with the company as a board member. Shigehisa Takada, the grandson of the company founder, will become president. The company also said that Takada will take a 50 percent pay cut for four months. Stocker and three other executives will also take a pay cut, the company said. More than 24 million cars have been recalled worldwide over Takata's air bags, which can erupt with too much force and spray metal shards into cars.   (Reporting by Mari Saito; Editing by Chris Gallagher) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Walmart logo is pictured in Los Angeles CHICAGO (Reuters) - Minimum wage increases across the United States will prompt Wal-Mart Stores Inc to adjust base salaries at 1,434 stores, impacting about a third of its U.S. locations, according to an internal memo reviewed by Reuters. The memo, which was sent to store managers earlier this month, offers insight into the impact of minimum wage hikes in 21 states due to come into effect on or around Jan. 1, 2015. These are adjustments that Wal-Mart and other employers have to make each year, but growing attention to the issue has expanded the scope of the change. Thirteen U.S. states lifted the minimum wage in 2014, up from 10 in 2013 and 8 in 2012. Wal-Mart spokeswoman Brooke Buchanan said the company was making the changes to "ensure our stores in the 21 states comply with the law." For Wal-Mart, the biggest private employer in the United States with 1.3 million workers, minimum wage legislation is not a small thing. Its operating model is built on keeping costs under close control as it attracts consumers with low prices and operates on tight margins. In recent years, it has been struggling to grow sales after many lower-income Americans lost jobs or income in the financial crisis. The Wal-Mart memo shows that there will be changes to its pay structure, including a narrowing of the gap in the minimum premium paid to those in higher skilled positions, such as deli associates and department supervisors, over lower grade jobs. Wal-Mart will also combine its lowest three pay grades, which include cashiers, cart pushers and maintenance, into one base rate. The changes appear in part to be an effort to offset the anticipated upswing in labor costs, according to a manager who was implementing the changes at his store. "Essentially that wage compression at the upper level of the hourly associate is going to help absorb that cost of the wage increase at the lower level," said the manager, who spoke on condition of anonymity. AP Wal-Mart’s critics – including a group of its workers backed by labor unions - say the retailer pays its hourly workers too little, forcing some to seek government assistance that effectively provides the company with an indirect taxpayer subsidy. Labor groups have been calling for Wal-Mart, other retailers and fast-food chains to pay at least $15 an hour. Wal-Mart has indicated it may make more changes to its compensation structure in 2015. Chief Executive Doug McMillon recently said the company would improve opportunities for workers, including getting the roughly 6,000 people who make the federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour at its stores off that rate. "In the world there is a debate over inequity, and sometimes we get caught up in that," he told TV presenter Charlie Rose in an interview this month. McMillon said he would take steps to ensure the company is "a meritocracy, an opportunity for people to do more." The state minimum wage changes range from a 17 percent increase in South Dakota to $8.50 to a modest rise of 2 percent to $8.05 in Arizona. They will also impact many of Wal-Mart's big retail rivals, such as Target Corp, and fast-food chains like McDonald's Corp. A Target spokeswoman said she could not provide details on how many employees might be impacted by the changes on Jan. 1. McDonald's could not be immediately reached for comment. Wal-Mart estimates its average full-time hourly wage is $12.92, and says that it pays competitive wages and offers its employees ample opportunity for advancement. Edward Jones analyst Brian Yarbrough said it is tough to estimate the cost impact of the minimum wage changes without knowing the number of Wal-Mart employees affected. While many employees might start out at the minimum rate, they advance to higher pay rates over time, he noted. Wal-Mart said last month that investment in wages and higher health care costs drove a 3.5 percent increase in operating expenses in its most recent quarter. Wal-Mart is unlikely to cut staff or reduce hours to keep those costs in check, given that it has made a renewed push to improve service in its stores, Yarbrough said. (Reporting by Nathan Layne; Editing by Michele Gershberg and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
