Felipe Dana/APChina's President Xi Jinping arrives for a meeting with Brazil's President Dilma Rousseff at the Planalto Presidential Palace, in Brasilia, Brazil, Thursday, July 17, 2014.The risks faced by China's economy are not that scary and the government is confident it can head off the dangers, President Xi Jinping told global business leaders on Sunday to dispel worries about the world's second-largest economy. In a speech to chief executives at the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) CEO Summit, Xi said even if China's economy were to grow 7 percent, that would still rank it at the forefront of the world's economies. China's economy, the world's second-largest, has had a rocky year. Growth slid to a low not seen since the 2008/09 global financial crisis in the third quarter dragged by a housing slowdown, softening domestic demand and unsteady exports. Yuya Shino/Reuters"Some people worry that China's economic growth will fall further, can it climb over the ridge?" Xi said. "There are indeed risks, but it's not so scary." "Even at growth of around 7 percent, regardless of speed or volume, (we) are among the best in the world," he said, noting that China's economy remained "stable". The remarks from Xi came a day after data showed annual growth in Chinese exports and imports cooled in October, in another sign of fragility in the economy that could prompt policymakers to take further action to stoke growth. To shore up activity, policymakers have loosened monetary and fiscal policies since April to ensure that the economy can grow by around 7.5 percent this year. Regional governments have accelerated spending on some infrastructure projects and abolished limits on the number of homes that Chinese can buy. The central bank has also injected short-term loans into banks to increase credit supply, and cut mortgage rates for some home buyers. Yet the results yielded have not been as good as some had hoped, fuelling speculation that China may have to cut interest rates or the reduce the amount of deposits that banks set aside as reserves - moves Beijing has denied are on the cards. Xi, who would sign off on any interest rate cut in China alongside the country's elite decision-making Politburo, did not comment on the policy outlook, but stressed that his government was focused on reforms and that China was open for business. Underlining the country's growing clout as an exporter of capital, he said China's overseas direct investment was expected to hit $1.2 trillion in the next decade. After three decades of almost uninterrupted double-digit growth, China's economy has lifted several hundred millions of Chinese from abject poverty, but also polluted the country's air, land and waterways. The destruction of China's environment and a yawning income gap has led Chinese authorities to promise to enact sweeping social, financial and economic reforms in the country that would be the most ambitious in three decades. Kim Kyung-Hoo/ReutersChina's national flag is seen in front of a chimney of a cogeneration plant in Beijing November 7, 2014."These reforms are gradually being put into effect project by project," Xi said. "Once the bow is drawn, the arrow cannot be put back in the quiver; we will resolutely deepen reform." Xi also sought to address concerns that China's growing economic and diplomatic prowess could constitute a threat beyond its borders, saying that China is willing to have friendly relations with its neighbours. China has territorial disputes with many of its neighbours and has been much more aggressive in enforcing its claims in recent years. "China's development brings enormous opportunities and benefits to the Asia Pacific and the world, and the business opportunities are lasting and limitless," he said. (Additional reporting by Koh Gui Qing and Ben Blanchard; Editing by Jeremy Laurence)   FREE AppDownload
Flickr/YukinkThe best whiskey in the world isn't from Scotland, England, or Ireland. It isn't Canadian or American. It is, rather, from Japan. That's at least the opinion of Jim Murray, an aficionado who presides over the World Whiskey Bible guide. For the first time in the publication's 12-year history, Murray—who sampled over 1,000 different whiskeys—awarded the top prize this year to the Yamazaki Single Malt Sherry Cask 2013. No Scottish whiskey even finished in the top three. "It's a single malt which no Scotch can at the moment get anywhere near," he said. While Japan's success in making great whiskey may surprise your average barfly, the country has a rich history with the spirit. The Yamazaki distillery was created in 1923 under the direction of Masataka Takatsuru, a Japanese chemist who had learned about whiskey production while living in Scotland. Upon his return, entrepreneur Shinjiro Torii (who would later found the beverage conglomerate Suntory) hired Takatsuru to establish a distillery in Yamazaki, a town near Kyoto. Flickr/YukinkThe whiskey library at the Yamazaki distillery in Japan. "A lot of American distilleries suffered setbacks because they could not operate during Prohibition," said Nick Korn, an expert who regularly holds seminars on Japanese whiskey. Issei Kato/ReutersBottles of Suntory Holding's Yamazaki and Hakushu whiskies are displayed at Suntory World Headquarters in Tokyo January 14, 2014."But in Japan, you've had over 90 years of high-quality, uninterrupted production." In recent years, Japanese distillers have refrained from flooding the U.S. market with mass-produced, inexpensive brands. Just 18,000 bottles of the victorious Yamazaki whiskey exist, and each bottle retails for a cool $160. "To use a car analogy, the Japanese decided to focus on exporting high-end Lexuses rather than Toyota Corollas," said Kurt Maitland, assistant editor at Whiskey Reviewer.  "Doing that raised their profile." Flickr/Yukink Both Maitland and Korn believe that Japanese whiskeys will only become more popular in the U.S. Suntory's acquisition earlier this year of Jim Beam, a manufacturer of American bourbons, will create opportunities for cross-branding. In addition, specialty cocktail bars have proliferated across American cities, and bartenders are eager to experiment with new, distinct flavors in order to attract skeptical customers. Maitland believes that publicity surrounding the World Whiskey Bible award will raise the profile of Japanese whiskeys that might otherwise have languished in obscurity. "People are always looking for something new and will want to give these whiskeys a chance," he said. FREE AppDownload
E!/"Rich Kids of Beverly Hills"The "Rich Kids of Beverly Hills" cast (from left): Roxy Sowalty, Jonny Drubel, Dorothy Wang, Morgan Stewart, and Brendan Fitzpatrick. Made up of six wealthy best friends from the 90210 zip code, "Rich Kids" was inspired by the popular and outrageous Tumblr "Rich Kids of Instagram," in which offspring of the super rich flaunt their yachts, diamonds, magnums of champagne, and more. hulu.com/E! Entertainment It was through this Tumblr that E! producers and casting directors found Dorothy Wang, the 26-year-old "funemployed" heiress to her father's $4 billion retail real estate fortune. Dorothy's dad, Roger Wang, founded the Golden Eagle International Group in Nanjing and turned it into one of the country's largest mall chains, with stores in 15 cities, according to Forbes. "When Rich Kids Of Instagram launched, I was one of the main people they featured on the site," Wang told Business Insider over the phone as she was sitting in L.A. traffic. "I was one of the first people they put on the Tumblr and then they kept putting me on it. So I was approached after producers at the network saw me on the Tumblr page and from there they asked me, 'Would you ever want to do a reality show?' and I responded, 'Honestly, I thought I was living a reality show the last seven years of my life. Thank God cameras are going to be there so I’m not just posing into thin air for myself.'" instagram.com/dorothywangDorothy Wang boarding a private jet in one of her many "fabuluxe" Instagram posts. Casting Dorothy — who says she had no idea of her family's wealth "until it was printed in Forbes" despite her collection of $10,000 Hermés Birkin bags so large she "lost count"— was easy, but E! needed a whole cast of people just as outgoing and unabashedly outrageous as the self-described "fabuluxe" University of Southern California graduate. instagram.com/boobsandloubs_"Rich Kids Of Beverly Hills" was initially called "The Morgan and Dorothy Project." In order to round out the cast, Dorothy says, "There wasn’t an open call or a casting for the show at all. They wanted Morgan and I to do a show so we brought in our friends and they picked the ones who are on the show now. So, all of these people who are coming out of the woodwork saying they auditioned for the show, I’m like, 'I was there, that’s not what happened.'" Instagram.com/Dorothy WangThe cast of "Rich Kids of Beverly Hills" are friends in real life, too. As with any reality show, the cast has conflicts with each other, but it's clear these friendships are real and have history that goes back further than when the cameras started rolling last year. The on-air conflicts haven't been enough to tear the group apart just yet. "I think we’ve all gotten a lot closer because it’s such a unique experience that has really taken over our lives and is our lives at the same time," explains Dorothy. "I have a lot of friends outside of the show, but sometimes I don’t want to put them through an hour of me talking about the show so I just hang out with Morgan and Roxy so we can talk about what’s going on." While Dorothy was on board to showcase her life for the public, adjusting to people's hateful comments online has taken some getting used to.  "I spent the first two weeks before and after the first episode aired basically crying and having anxiety attacks because it was so new to me," Dorothy admits. "But once the show progressed, we really saw a shift. People were like, 'Wait, we actually don’t hate you, we like you. You’re not annoying anymore.'" Before the show aired, Dorothy had 26,000 followers on Instagram. Today she has 561,000 followers and counting, as well as a new outlook on her haters. "Now when I do read the comments, I laugh at them," she says. "It’s crazy stuff like a person wanting to stab me in a back alley with a turkey leg. Sometimes they say the funniest things, we literally just read them out loud to each other. It’s funny to us now. I think we’ve all developed a much thicker skin." So what does Dorothy's influential dad think about his daughter's newfound reality show fame? "I literally waited until we had to sign our contracts to tell my family ... but when I told my dad he was the most supportive. He said, ‘I would never do it, but for someone like you, I think it’s something you will enjoy and be good at, and it’s something you can do a lot of things with. You have an interesting story to tell. Yes, you’re a rich kid, but you are also so much more and this would allow you to show that to the world.'"    FREE AppDownload
TIRANA (Reuters) - In the end, it wasn't the security cameras or the audit inspections in the vault of Albania's central bank that brought down Ardian Bitraj. It was the high blood pressure and lack of sleep, the burden of a multi-million-dollar secret. Sitting down with his boss this July, Bitraj confessed his deception: over a four-year period he had stolen the equivalent of $6.5 million from the vault, covering his tracks by stuffing the empty cash boxes with books and balls of string. The revelation brought down the central bank governor, led to the arrest of 18 employees and tarnished the reputation of an institution once lauded for its professionalism. And all for the sake of a gambling habit that led to massive losses, culminating in a series of fatal bets on the soccer World Cup. The full story of the Balkan bank heist is only just emerging, gleaned by Reuters in interviews with bankers, investigators and others involved, and from legal documents including a transcript of Bitraj's confession. It started in May 2010, when Bitraj, who had risen to become head of the cash processing department at the bank, first opened the metal and plastic clasps to the wooden boxes that hold its cash reserves in the cryptically named X Building on the outskirts of the capital Tirana. Bitraj, 45, had a penchant for placing bets on soccer matches, so roughly once a month he would wait for his co-workers to leave the room and swipe up to 2 million leks, roughly $18,000, according to the confession. Thomson ReutersA view showing the building of Albania's central bank, in Tirana Choosing carefully how he returned the boxes, Bitraj would make sure those he had tampered with were not in line for delivery to Albania's commercial banks, nor likely to be picked on in the regular random audit of the vault. As the thefts mounted, he would stuff the boxes with packaging, balls of string and books to replace the weight of the cash. All three keys needed to access the vault were kept in his personal safe. In statements to police, bank employees said they had not received any directive on how or where to store the keys. Bitraj says auditors checked only 2 percent of the cash boxes in the vault. Fired governor Ardian Fullani says it was 5 percent, maintaining that checks in the former communist country were comparable with other central banks in Europe. YouTube/A1 ReportAn exclusive video of Bitraj from A1 Report. Witness testimony has since revealed that the bank's plumber and electrician both made up the numbers for the required seven-member audit team in 2012 and 2013. Oddly enough, according to Bitraj's confession, the security cameras in the cash processing section were not trained on the cash boxes, but on an office and an annex to the cash room. Bitraj would stuff the money in a black plastic bag and place it in his office safe, investigators said. Then before leaving work, he would duck into the lavatory and strap the wads of bills to his body. His nephew would drive him home. "The bank had no system to detect if anyone was carrying banknotes out, and some of the cameras were at an angle at which one could not see everything," an investigator, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told Reuters. The theft reached its peak during the World Cup in Brazil in June and July; at one point, Bitraj smuggled out 10 million leks, or roughly $90,000, in a single day. Newspapers reported that he bet through Tirana bookmakers on dozens of matches throughout the tournament, losing 20 million leks ($180,000) on a single game when he backed Brazil to beat Chile in regular time but they only won through on penalties. The strain on him was mounting. His wife, in written testimony, said he was suffering from high blood pressure. Investigators told Reuters he was not eating properly, could not sleep and had stopped washing himself. "I wonder why the guy didn't skip the country," said a veteran insider at the central bank. His confession sent shockwaves through the bank: 18 employees have been arrested, mainly on suspicion of negligence. Fullani, who had won praise from the likes of the International Monetary Fund for his handling of monetary policy during 10 years in charge, is under house arrest pending trial on charges of abuse of office. Bitraj himself has been charged with bank theft and faces up to 20 years in jail. The trial is expected to begin within weeks and a verdict could come early next year. His tale is a cautionary one for banks the world over. "It seems they worked on the basis of trust. And there should be zero trust in a bank," the central bank insider said. (Editing by Matt Robinson and Mark Trevelyan) FREE AppDownload
Ray Dalio has grown his investment firm Bridgewater Associates into the largest hedge fund in the world, with $160 billion in assets. He's worth an estimated $15.2 billion himself. He's a genius, and an eccentric one at that. Dalio believes in "radical transparency," which means that everything at Bridgewater is under constant surveillance — all meetings, all interviews, and all interactions are taped. He runs Bridgewater according to 210 principles that he's collected in a manual for his employees. The Wall Street tabloid blog Dealbreaker leaked this book a few years ago, and the site enjoys poking fun of Dalio's obsessive nature and sometimes flowery philosophizing. The Wall Street Journal's Deal Journal blog dubbed him "Wall Street's Oddest Duck." But Dalio has responded to critics by saying that Bridgewater's unique approach isn't manipulative or cultish, but based on a powerful unifying culture. And clearly whatever they're doing over there is working. Today the 2011 edition of the exhaustive manual he gives to employees is available on Bridgewater's website for anyone to read. We've summarized Dalio's 20 core management principles below. "Create an environment in which everyone has the right to understand what makes sense and no one has the right to hold a critical opinion without speaking up about it," Dalio writes. He believes that even though the truth can be scary (like when your boss points out one of your flaws), it's necessary for optimum performance. Dalio has actually fired employees for talking behind a coworker's back. "If you talk behind people's backs at Bridgewater you are called a slimy weasel," Dalio says. Dalio believes that managers need to expect mistakes from both their employees and themselves. And analysis of mistakes should be quick and as painless as possible. "Create an environment in which people understand that remarks such as 'You handled that badly' are meant to be helpful (for the future) rather than punitive (for the past). While people typically feel unhappy about blame and good about credit, that attitude gets everything backwards and can cause major problems. Worrying about 'blame' and 'credit' or 'positive' and 'negative' feedback impedes the iterative process essential to learning," Dalio writes. Dalio teaches his employees to work at a level where there is a mutual understanding of what needs to be accomplished. One way to achieve this is by using conversations about a certain project as a means of reaching conclusions rather than just brainstorming. He also believes that it is a manager's responsibility to weigh the value of coworkers' opinions. In the same way that you'd value golf advice from Tiger Woods over advice from a friend, Dalio writes, you should value the opinion of a worker with a proven track record over someone without one. Ray Dalio/Bridgewater AssociatesYour team should work as a machine designed to achieve your goals. Before you begin a search for an employee, determine not just the job's qualifications, but which specific qualities you want in that hire. And make sure that the person you are hiring naturally shares your values. Bridgewater employees are given personality tests so that managers can determine how they can best be managed. Dalio's test is essentially his version of the Myers-Briggs test. When considering a job candidate, Dalio places the most importance on values ("deep-seated beliefs that motivate behaviors"), then abilities ("ways of thinking and behaving"), and then skills ("learned tools"). He suggests finding a candidate who doesn't just want the job but wants to be part of the company. "Don't hire people just to fit the first job they will do at Bridgewater; hire people you want to share your life with," Dalio writes, adding that you should "look for people who sparkle, not just 'another one of those.'" "Micromanaging is telling the people who work for you exactly what tasks to do and/or doing their tasks for them. Not managing is having them do their jobs without your oversight and involvement. Managing means: 1) understanding how well your people and designs are operating to achieve your goals, and 2) constantly improving them. To be successful, you need to manage," Dalio says. And to manage effectively, everyone needs to know what the team's long-term goals are and what individual employee's tasks are. Dalio says it's necessary to avoid the term "we should," since an objective should be concrete and assigned to a specific party. "The main reason Bridgewater has improved at a much faster rate than most other companies over the past 30 years is that we seek out problems and find systematic ways of eliminating them," Dalio writes. He thinks that managers and their employees shouldn't pick their battles but fight them all, in the sense that they should never let even small problems float by without being addressed. Don't assume that criticizing your employees will harm them. Discuss their performance with them objectively, and do so in a way that results in a plan for improvement. And don't wait for periodic evaluations to let them know how they're doing. "Child psychologists, dog trainers, and other behavior modification specialists will tell you that constant, no-exception feedback is fundamental to good training," Dalio writes. If you're telling an employee exactly what they need to do to complete a task, then you're either micromanaging or the employee is inept. "So give people your thoughts on how they might approach their decisions or how and why you would operate in their shoes, but don't dictate to them. Almost all that you will be doing is constantly getting in synch about how they are doing things and exploring why," Dalio says. "People who repeatedly operated in a certain way probably will continue to operate that way because that behavior reflects what they're like," Dalio says. That means that if someone isn't clicking with their role, you're doing neither of you a favor by manipulating the role around their tendencies. Consider whether they'd be a better fit elsewhere in the company, and if not, then it's probably best to fire them. Ray Dalio/Bridgewater AssociatesYour team's improvement should look like the top chart and not the bottom. "To perceive problems, compare how the movie is unfolding relative to your script — i.e., compare the actual operating of the machine and the outcomes it is producing to your visualization of how it should operate and the outcomes you expected. As long as you have the visualization of your expectations in mind to compare with the actual results, you will note the deviations so you can deal with them," Dalio writes. And when you get to the root of a problem, avoid generalizations. Use specific names and the specific ways they deviated from your expectations. Don't treat problems as if they are one-time occurrences, Dalio says, since they're just the manifestation of a certain behavior or bias. Work with your employee to find these roots so that the expectation of the mistake being repeated is then lowered. Managers and their employees need to do a post-mortem on resolved problems and place them in the context of the past and the future. Place everything in the context of how you want your "machine," your team, to operate at its peak. "An organization is the opposite of a building — the foundation is at the top," Dalio says. The head of a company should determine their goals and find managers who can help them achieve them by assigning tasks to their direct reports. These individual managers should also hire employees who share their own goals, which fall in line with the company's vision. "You can make great things happen, but you must MAKE great things happen. Times will come when the choice will be to plod along normally or to push through to achieve the goal. The choice should be obvious," Dalio writes. Ray Dalio/Bridgewater AssociatesIf you're on trajectory B, your machine isn't working. "Successful people are great at asking the important questions and then finding the answers. When faced with a problem, they first ask themselves if they know all the important questions about it; they are objective in assessing the probability that they have the answers; and they are good at open-mindedly seeking believable people to ask," Dalio says. Dalio approaches managing people the same way he manages investments. "Recognize opportunities where there isn't much to lose and a lot to gain, even if the probability of the gain happening is low," he writes. Dalio says that leaders are able to determine the importance of the tasks in front of them and take care of the most important things first. "Be an effective imperfectionist. Solutions that broadly work well (e.g., how people should contact each other in the event of crises) are generally better than highly specialized solutions (e.g., how each person should contact each other in the event of every conceivable crisis), especially in the early stages of a plan. There generally isn't much gained by lots of detail relative to a good broad solution," Dalio writes. Dalio recommends reflecting on the events of a day and then determining whether they exceeded your expectations, met them, or fell below them. Over a month (or any longer period of time) the frequency of met and exceeded expectations should be on an upward trajectory. Dalio says that your decisions should be made with this trajectory in mind. "Avoid the temptation to compromise on that which is uncompromisable," and don't try to please everybody with every choice you make for the team. You can check out all 123 pages of Dalio's principles at Bridgewater's site. FREE AppDownload
If logic follows, people working in finance would earn more money from their investments than anyone else. After all, investing is their area of expertise. According to new data from investment app Openfolio, however, this doesn't seem to be the case. By analyzing about 700 portfolios of Openfolio users working in the tech industry, about 500 portfolios of users working in finance, and about 160 from users working in advertising and media, the company found that finance users aren't the most effective investors and, in fact, are outranked by both of the other cohorts in terms of their portfolios' performance over the last year. These findings aren't unprecedented. Openfolio points to a recent study of mutual fund managers' private portfolios published in the Journal Of Financial Intermediation, in which the authors write, "We find no evidence that financial experts make better investment decisions than peers; they do not outperform, do not diversify their risks better, and do not exhibit lower behavioral biases."  Of course, Openfolio's analysis is limited to its users and therefore doesn't address every investor who works in each of the industries addressed, but here is what Openfolio found, and a few possible explanations they suggest influence the results. On average, users working in tech earned a 12.7% return on their investments over the past year, compared to an average 11.1% return experienced by users working in advertising and media, and an average 8% return from the portfolios of those working in finance and banking. Openfolio First of all, Openfolio finds, the users included in the analysis who work in finance hold a markedly higher percentage of cash than the people working in tech or advertising and media. By holding cash, they're keeping that money out of the market and missing out on its gains. Openfolio They also have a larger percentage of their portfolio in bank stocks, presumably because they're given bonuses in the form of company stock that they can't sell. Plus, they may be more likely to buy bank stocks because that's what they're most familiar with, working in the industry. Openfolio And finally, people working in technology are much more heavily invested in tech stocks than anyone else, which means they've benefitted disproportionately from the performance of successful tech companies. Openfolio Openfolio, which allows users to share their investment returns, also lets users make similar analyses through its "explore" feature, which separates users into different cohorts for comparison. The images in this post have been updated to clarify that the final chart shows investments in technology stocks, not finance stocks. FREE AppDownload
If logic follows, people working in finance would earn more money from their investments than anyone else. After all, investing is their area of expertise. According to new data from investment app Openfolio, however, this doesn't seem to be the case. By analyzing about 700 portfolios of Openfolio users working in the tech industry, about 500 portfolios of users working in finance, and about 160 from users working in advertising and media, the company found that finance users aren't the most effective investors and, in fact, are outranked by both of the other cohorts in terms of their portfolios' performance over the last year. These findings aren't unprecedented. Openfolio points to a recent study of mutual fund managers' private portfolios published in the Journal Of Financial Intermediation, in which the authors write, "We find no evidence that financial experts make better investment decisions than peers; they do not outperform, do not diversify their risks better, and do not exhibit lower behavioral biases."  Of course, Openfolio's analysis is limited to its users and therefore doesn't address every investor who works in each of the industries addressed, but here is what Openfolio found, and a few possible explanations they suggest influence the results. On average, users working in tech earned a 12.7% return on their investments over the past year, compared to an average 11.1% return experienced by users working in advertising and media, and an average 8% return from the portfolios of those working in finance and banking. Openfolio First of all, Openfolio finds, the users included in the analysis who work in finance hold a markedly higher percentage of cash than the people working in tech or advertising and media. By holding cash, they're keeping that money out of the market and missing out on its gains. Openfolio They also have a larger percentage of their portfolio in bank stocks, presumably because they're given bonuses in the form of company stock that they can't sell. Plus, they may be more likely to buy bank stocks because that's what they're most familiar with, working in the industry. Openfolio And finally, people working in technology are much more heavily invested in tech stocks than anyone else, which means they've benefitted disproportionately from the performance of successful tech companies. Openfolio Openfolio, which allows users to share their investment returns, also lets users make similar analyses through its "explore" feature, which separates users into different cohorts for comparison. The images in this post have been updated to clarify that the final chart shows investments in technology stocks, not finance stocks. FREE AppDownload
Are you good with numbers, data, or spreadsheets? Don't be afraid to show off your skills — as it turns out, being a "math geek" is quite lucrative.  New data from PayScale reports that the median salary for math majors is $70,900 — compared to a median salary of $58,600 for all college grads. Some professions, such as data scientists and quantitative analysts, are even higher, with median salaries upwards of $100,000. To find the highest-paying ways "math geeks" can put their skills to work, PayScale looked at the incomes of professionals with 5 to 8 years of experience who majored in math, ranking those with the highest median salaries.  Here are the top 10 professions where math lovers are making bank:  Mike Nudelman FREE AppDownload
Facebook/deadrabbitnycSee where The Dead Rabbit made it on our list.New York City has over 2,000 bars, so it can be difficult to figure out which are the best places to grab a drink. From trendy cocktail bars to local dives, we've found the 10 best bars in New York City. This list is derived from our list of The Best Bars In America. To compile this list, we looked at six notable bar rankings— James Beard Awards, Esquire, Food &amp; Wine, Zagat, The World's 50 Best Bars, and Liquor.com's Best Bars in America—and aggregated the rankings to come up with our own list of the Best Bars in America. We used Yelp ratings as a tie-breaker. You can read more about our methodology here. FREE AppDownload
It has more than $30 billion in revenue, stores so massive people get lost in them, and products filling up homes across the world. We're all familiar with Ikea's dominance in home furnishing. But when you're that big, there are a lot of little details that many people might not be aware of. Produced by Matt Johnston Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Richard Drew/APThe Twitter bird logo is on an updated phone post on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, Wednesday Nov. 6, 2013Dick Costolo used to be an improvisational comedian. Quick wits can be useful in business too, especially when performing for a testy audience.  On November 7th the company he runs, Twitter, celebrated its first anniversary as a public company. In spite of early applause, its reviews among investors have been mixed. No one can quite decide on its prospects. Some believe it could become the next titan of digital advertising, up there with Google and Facebook, while others think it will be stuck in a niche, albeit a fairly large one, and will ultimately be valued as such. Mr Costolo has made big, tweet-worthy promises to his followers. "Our ambition is to have the largest audience in the world," he says. Since its founding in 2006, Twitter has been taken up by everyone from Queen Elizabeth to the commonest of commoners, while playing a role in political revolutions, including those of the Arab spring, and breaking news, such as America's raid on Osama bin Laden's compound. Its constant appearances in the mass media mean that "Twitter has received more free promotion than any company in the history of capitalism," says Peter Stabler of Wells Fargo Securities, an investment bank. Getty / Ethan MillerDick CostoloAround 285m people log on to Twitter each month--some 20% of American smartphone users and 9% of those elsewhere. It gets its content free from twittering users, and makes money by charging advertisers for such things as inserting "promoted tweets" into users' message streams. Big consumer brands like being able to direct messages at people according to their interests and location, and the real-time, conversational tone that their own Twitter feeds allow them to achieve. Twitter has more than quadrupled its revenues since 2012, to an expected $1.4 billion this year. Like many technology firms, its valuation has ballooned even more. Valued in 2009 at what was then considered a stunning $1 billion, Twitter now has a $25 billion market capitalisation, and that is after a recent fall in its shares prompted by a muted earnings announcement. Twitter stands to gain as advertisers pour more resources into digital advertising. In a way, it is a "mobile native": when it started out, people received their tweets as text messages on their phones. This may give it an advantage over some of its competitors, which need to navigate the complexities of moving from desktops to mobile devices. Today around 75% of Twitter's advertising revenues already come from mobiles. So far, however, Twitter is a more important cultural force than a commercial one. It remains unprofitable according to general accounting principles, and this is not expected to change until at least 2017. It could make money this year if it did not pay out around 45% of its revenues in stock-based compensation (compared with less than 15% by Facebook and around 8% by Google). However, it does so to retain employees in a competitive landscape where they could easily hop on the Google bus, or quit for a promising startup. When Twitter went public a year ago, it looked set to compete head-on with Facebook, and eventually Google, the goliaths of digital advertising. It now appears less likely that Twitter will hatch into such a giant. Recently its user-growth has slowed, much earlier than Facebook's did. Today Facebook has 1.4 billion monthly active users, over four times as many as Twitter, and controls around 10% of all digital advertising spend in America, according to eMarketer, a research firm. Advertisers look for a combination of scale and precision in online advertising, and Twitter has neither the largest number of users nor the most precise targeting capabilities. The Economist"Twitter has developed into an indispensable media outlet for us, but there are different levels of indispensability," says Ben Winkler, chief digital officer of OMD Worldwide, an agency that buys advertising space on behalf of clients. "Both wiper fluid and gasoline are indispensable, but they don't get the same share of wallet." Twitter is what marketers buy after they have filled up with their core digital fuel: Google and Facebook. Birthdays provide an opportunity for reflection. If the challenges faced by the firm had to be summed up in 140 characters or less, they would be: complexity, competition, and culture. Twitter can be fiddly to use for those who are not accustomed to its interface and communication style. In the past year Twitter has made it easier for people to sign up and find other users to follow, but for it to become more mainstream, it may need a further redesign. Realising that Twitter may not be for everyone, Mr Costolo and his colleagues have started to highlight the size of the audience who look at Twitter but never sign up, which is one to two times as large as the active user-base. However, these people will never be as valuable to advertisers as active users. A promise of digital advertising is more precise targeting and data collection. Twitter lags behind Facebook in both. Twitter lets advertisers reach users based on their inferred interests, including which firms' and individuals' accounts they follow and what they tweet about. However, it does not have the detailed demographic data that Facebook collects, including university affiliation, birth year, and the like. From its inception Twitter's culture has been hampered by infighting. Mr Costolo became Twitter's third chief executive when the firm was only four years old. Over the last six months the saga of executive churn has continued, with the chief operating officer, Ali Rowghani, departing amid reports of clashes with Mr Costolo; and the chief financial officer being replaced. In recent days a new product chief, Kevin Weil, has been promoted and his predecessor demoted. There have been competing visions for the future of the firm among executives. This is bound to have been a distraction. "All opportunity, little execution" is a criticism that an executive close to Twitter has hurled at the firm. Adam Bain, the firm's chief revenue officer, argues that "We've been focused on getting it right rather than doing it right away." Twitter plans to continue expanding, both by increasing its own user base and by delivering advertisements to users on other mobile applications. Before it went public last year it acquired Mopub, a mobile-advertising exchange, which allows it to place ads in real-time in other firms' apps. Recently it introduced a suite of products called "Fabric" that will make it easier for developers of other apps to integrate Twitter content (and give Twitter a cut of their ad revenues). Mr Costolo knows he needs to watch out for younger messaging firms, like WhatsApp (now owned by Facebook) and Snapchat, which appeal to young consumers and could take attention and eventually advertising spending away. To fend them off Mr Costolo wants to make it easier to do private, direct messaging on Twitter. Over time people hope Twitter will make room for more video advertising, which advertisers would like, and introduce an attractive e-commerce service, so users can buy items via Twitter with a click. Some quietly wonder whether Twitter itself might be the one that is bought. If its growth stalls and its shares become cheap enough, a larger firm, such as Google, might consider trying to catch the bird. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Richard Drew/APThe Twitter bird logo is on an updated phone post on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, Wednesday Nov. 6, 2013Dick Costolo used to be an improvisational comedian. Quick wits can be useful in business too, especially when performing for a testy audience.  On November 7th the company he runs, Twitter, celebrated its first anniversary as a public company. In spite of early applause, its reviews among investors have been mixed. No one can quite decide on its prospects. Some believe it could become the next titan of digital advertising, up there with Google and Facebook, while others think it will be stuck in a niche, albeit a fairly large one, and will ultimately be valued as such. Mr Costolo has made big, tweet-worthy promises to his followers. "Our ambition is to have the largest audience in the world," he says. Since its founding in 2006, Twitter has been taken up by everyone from Queen Elizabeth to the commonest of commoners, while playing a role in political revolutions, including those of the Arab spring, and breaking news, such as America's raid on Osama bin Laden's compound. Its constant appearances in the mass media mean that "Twitter has received more free promotion than any company in the history of capitalism," says Peter Stabler of Wells Fargo Securities, an investment bank. Getty / Ethan MillerDick CostoloAround 285m people log on to Twitter each month--some 20% of American smartphone users and 9% of those elsewhere. It gets its content free from twittering users, and makes money by charging advertisers for such things as inserting "promoted tweets" into users' message streams. Big consumer brands like being able to direct messages at people according to their interests and location, and the real-time, conversational tone that their own Twitter feeds allow them to achieve. Twitter has more than quadrupled its revenues since 2012, to an expected $1.4 billion this year. Like many technology firms, its valuation has ballooned even more. Valued in 2009 at what was then considered a stunning $1 billion, Twitter now has a $25 billion market capitalisation, and that is after a recent fall in its shares prompted by a muted earnings announcement. Twitter stands to gain as advertisers pour more resources into digital advertising. In a way, it is a "mobile native": when it started out, people received their tweets as text messages on their phones. This may give it an advantage over some of its competitors, which need to navigate the complexities of moving from desktops to mobile devices. Today around 75% of Twitter's advertising revenues already come from mobiles. So far, however, Twitter is a more important cultural force than a commercial one. It remains unprofitable according to general accounting principles, and this is not expected to change until at least 2017. It could make money this year if it did not pay out around 45% of its revenues in stock-based compensation (compared with less than 15% by Facebook and around 8% by Google). However, it does so to retain employees in a competitive landscape where they could easily hop on the Google bus, or quit for a promising startup. When Twitter went public a year ago, it looked set to compete head-on with Facebook, and eventually Google, the goliaths of digital advertising. It now appears less likely that Twitter will hatch into such a giant. Recently its user-growth has slowed, much earlier than Facebook's did. Today Facebook has 1.4 billion monthly active users, over four times as many as Twitter, and controls around 10% of all digital advertising spend in America, according to eMarketer, a research firm. Advertisers look for a combination of scale and precision in online advertising, and Twitter has neither the largest number of users nor the most precise targeting capabilities. The Economist"Twitter has developed into an indispensable media outlet for us, but there are different levels of indispensability," says Ben Winkler, chief digital officer of OMD Worldwide, an agency that buys advertising space on behalf of clients. "Both wiper fluid and gasoline are indispensable, but they don't get the same share of wallet." Twitter is what marketers buy after they have filled up with their core digital fuel: Google and Facebook. Birthdays provide an opportunity for reflection. If the challenges faced by the firm had to be summed up in 140 characters or less, they would be: complexity, competition, and culture. Twitter can be fiddly to use for those who are not accustomed to its interface and communication style. In the past year Twitter has made it easier for people to sign up and find other users to follow, but for it to become more mainstream, it may need a further redesign. Realising that Twitter may not be for everyone, Mr Costolo and his colleagues have started to highlight the size of the audience who look at Twitter but never sign up, which is one to two times as large as the active user-base. However, these people will never be as valuable to advertisers as active users. A promise of digital advertising is more precise targeting and data collection. Twitter lags behind Facebook in both. Twitter lets advertisers reach users based on their inferred interests, including which firms' and individuals' accounts they follow and what they tweet about. However, it does not have the detailed demographic data that Facebook collects, including university affiliation, birth year, and the like. From its inception Twitter's culture has been hampered by infighting. Mr Costolo became Twitter's third chief executive when the firm was only four years old. Over the last six months the saga of executive churn has continued, with the chief operating officer, Ali Rowghani, departing amid reports of clashes with Mr Costolo; and the chief financial officer being replaced. In recent days a new product chief, Kevin Weil, has been promoted and his predecessor demoted. There have been competing visions for the future of the firm among executives. This is bound to have been a distraction. "All opportunity, little execution" is a criticism that an executive close to Twitter has hurled at the firm. Adam Bain, the firm's chief revenue officer, argues that "We've been focused on getting it right rather than doing it right away." Twitter plans to continue expanding, both by increasing its own user base and by delivering advertisements to users on other mobile applications. Before it went public last year it acquired Mopub, a mobile-advertising exchange, which allows it to place ads in real-time in other firms' apps. Recently it introduced a suite of products called "Fabric" that will make it easier for developers of other apps to integrate Twitter content (and give Twitter a cut of their ad revenues). Mr Costolo knows he needs to watch out for younger messaging firms, like WhatsApp (now owned by Facebook) and Snapchat, which appeal to young consumers and could take attention and eventually advertising spending away. To fend them off Mr Costolo wants to make it easier to do private, direct messaging on Twitter. Over time people hope Twitter will make room for more video advertising, which advertisers would like, and introduce an attractive e-commerce service, so users can buy items via Twitter with a click. Some quietly wonder whether Twitter itself might be the one that is bought. If its growth stalls and its shares become cheap enough, a larger firm, such as Google, might consider trying to catch the bird. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Noel ValeroJulia Ratcliffe is the top-ranked hammer thrower in the NCAA rankings.Founded in 1746, Princeton University remains a vibrant community of scholarship and learning. Students who attend this Ivy League school follow in the footsteps of Woodrow Wilson, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Eric Schmidt, Meg Whitman, Michelle Obama, Jeff Bezos, and other movers and shakers of industry. From creating companies to scaling summits, these 16 students are changing what it means to be impressive. FREE AppDownload
Burger King is winning during a difficult time for fast-food chains.  The company just posted its biggest quarterly sales gain in two years. While Burger King boosted North American sales by 3.6%, McDonald's plunged 3.3%.  Burger King has made a few smart decisions that are helping it win over McDonald's, writes Venessa Wong at Bloomberg Businessweek.  Morgan Stanley recently upgraded Burger King's shares to "overweight," citing positive trends in the business. The company's stock has risen 60% in the past year.  "The point isn’t to dwell on famously tough times at McDonald’s but to point out that while the burger business is indeed difficult, some chains are managing to succeed," Wong writes.  Here a few reasons Burger King is doing so well.  Cash-strapped Americans are increasingly unwilling to shell out for fast food.  Burger King has lured in customers with promotions like the two for $5 sandwich deal, Businessweek writes. The brand also started selling 10 chicken nuggets for $1.49.  To help offset the discounts, Burger King raised the prices of some items.  While McDonald's offered a promotion on free coffee, the higher price of burgers is a turnoff for consumers.  A Double Quarter Pounder with cheese, fries, and a drink now totals about $7.50 at some Chicago locations, Bloomberg reports.  That's too expensive for many customers, Leslie Patton writes. Burger KingBurger King's promotions, like 10 chicken nuggets for $1.49, are helping to drive sales. Burger King decided to focus on "fewer and more impactful products," chief executive Daniel Schwartz told analysts.  This strategy benefits Burger King because it simplifies operations in the kitchen, making service faster. It also means that franchisees aren't shelling out for a variety of products that potentially go to waste.  "Some products are just new permutations of things already in the kitchen," Wong writes. "The Rodeo Burger, for instance, is basically a standard burger with onion rings and barbecue sauce." McDonald's, meanwhile is struggling with a menu that has become too complicated.  CEO Don Thompson said the company is working on paring down the menu.  "We are streamlining our merchandising menu board and product offerings and in addition to making it easier for customer to order their favorite products, this will reduce complexity in our restaurants which in turn should enhance accuracy and speed of service," he told analysts earlier this year.  Burger King is on-track to remodel 40% of its restaurants by the end of 2015, boosting sales by as much as 10%, executives say.  McDonald's, which has a larger store footprint, "appears to be undergoing renovation at a slower rate," Wong writes.  By renovating stores with a modern feel, Burger King is able to better compete with fast-casual competitors like Chipotle.  While McDonald's has fallen on hard times, the average store still makes twice as much as Burger King restaurants.  FREE AppDownload
For years, I've read about a "secret menu" at McDonald's that offers up ridiculous items like the "Land, Sea, and Air Burger," which is a Big Mac stuffed with a chicken and fish patty. Only thing is – a McDonald's rep tells us "there is no secret menu at McDonald's." So, what happens when you order off the infamous secret menu? I found out.  Produced by Will Wei. Camera by Devan Joseph. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Quick quiz: Which of these sculptures by Alberto Giacometti is worth $10 million, and which is worth $100 million?  Christie's Images Ltd. 2014Giacometti's "Stèle III"   Sotheby'sGiacometti's "Chariot"  This isn't a trick question! The first image is Giacometti's "Stèle III," which sold for $9.9 million at Christie's on Wednesday night. The second, "Chariot," brought in just over $100 million at Sotheby's the night before. But it's hard to say what makes one worth ten times the other. The basic answer is that these works are worth whatever someone is willing to pay for them. On Tuesday, a buyer was willing to pay $100 million for Chariot, making it, on that day, worth $100 million. On Wednesday, someone was willing to pay $10 million for Stèle — and that was actually more than the auction house expected to get for it. The hammer price, which is what the seller gets after the auction house's fees, was $8.7 million, quite a bit above the auction house's $4.5-6.5 million pre-sale estimate. It probably got a bump from the big sale of Chariot the day before. Going back to that: Chariot is the more famous work. It is the better work. But what motivates someone to pay $90 million more for it? Well part of it is being able to show people who come to your house that you have the $100 million piece of art. Here's Felix Salmon, with an explanation I can't top: The art market has become a world of conspicuous consumption—a hundred-million-dollar sculpture is simply the most ultra-luxe end of the luxury market, a gilded toy to one-up the guest who arrives in a Bugatti. Art, at these levels (or even at a tenth of these levels) is instantly recognizable: you see a Giacometti and you know, in a fraction of a second, that it’s a Giacometti. It’s branded. And if you know anything about the high-end auction market, then when you see “Chariot” you’ll know that it’s “Chariot,” the hundred-million-dollar sculpture.  It's worth reading Salmon's full post, as he goes through why the $100 million that Sotheby's got for the sculpture was actually quite a disappointment, and how the auction house may have even lost money on this huge sale. The thing is, these iconic works are really just trophies. They are an ad for the fact that their owners can afford to pay whatever gigantic sum gets splashed across the headlines. The art market at the highest level is nothing more than making sport out of consumption. There are two ways to think about this: A common reaction is that it's obscene that $100 million is going to change hands over a single, relatively small object. You could probably buy a small island for less money. At the same time, if you have $100 million to throw around, there are worse ways to spend it. You can't stop rich people from spending their money how they like. Even the low end of the evening auctions is out of reach of the 99.9%. These artists, particularly in the Impressionist and modern auctions, are mostly dead. There are very few people for whom this purchase actually means something material. Not all of the art market is a game. But this is. So have fun talking about it and thank god you don't owe anyone $100 million this week!  Here are the other top trophies works that were sold at the New York evening auctions this week:  Christie's Images Ltd. 2014Édouard Manet, Le Printemps (1881) Édouard Manet's "Le Printemps" sold for $65,125,000 at Christie's on Wednesday. Christie's Images Ltd. 2014Joan Miró's Tuilerie à Mont-roig (1918) Joan Miró's (1893-1983), "Tuilerie à Mont-roig" sold for $8,677,000 at Christie's. Sotheby's New YorkAmedeo Modigliani's "Tête" (1911-1912) Amedeo Modigliani's "Tête" sold for $70,725,000 at Sotheby's on Tuesday. Sotheby's New YorkVincent Van Gogh's Still Life, Vase with Daisies and Poppies (1890) Vincent van Gogh's "Still Life, Vase with Daisies and Poppies" sold for $61,765,000 at Sotheby's. New York's fall auction season continues next week, with the contemporary evening sales. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Jack FrenchGolf is a lifelong sport that takes a lot of patience, discipline, and practice. So for the pros and enthusiasts out there, we've gathered the best golf course in each state across the US. We looked to golf experts Golf.com, Golf Digest, Golfweek, and Golf Course Gurus to ensure we picked the very best. From Mt. McKinley in Anchorage, Alaska, to the shores of Juno Beach, Florida, here is the top golf course in every state.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA garbage collector rides his tricycle as he looks for recyclable items on the streets of BeijingBEIJING (Reuters) - China approved more than $100 billion worth of infrastructure projects in late October and early November, state media said on Saturday, in a bid to bolster slowing growth in the world's second largest economy. China's top economic planning body, the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), approved 21 infrastructure investment projects between Oct. 16 and Nov. 5 with a total investment value of 693.3 billion yuan ($113.24 billion), the official Xinhua news agency said on Saturday, citing state radio. The projects included 16 railways and five airports, with the aim of propping up a decline in real estate investment, Xinhua said. Annual growth slowed to 7.3 percent in the third quarter - the weakest since the height of the global financial crisis - as a cooling property sector weighed on domestic demand. Annual growth in China's exports and imports also slowed in October, data showed on Saturday, reinforcing signs of fragility that could prompt policymakers to roll out more stimulus measures. (1 US dollar = 6.1225 Chinese yuan)   (Reporting by Paul Carsten and Ben Blanchard) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jorge SilvaA 45-storey skyscraper in the center of Venezuela's capital Caracas is no five-star hotel or swanky apartment block: it is a slum.The World Economic Forum (WEF) has ranked the top 10 threats to the global economy and international order in its latest outlook report released Friday. The WEF labels them "trends", however, they are all rather terrifying.  This year, the WEF got Nobel Prize winner and former US vice president Al Gore to explain the list, reprinted below: French economist Thomas Piketty's 700-page book on inequality seems to have had an impact, with inequality leaping into first place from second last year. The WEF reproduced a chart from the World Top Incomes Database, which Piketty has worked on:  WEF There are a couple of other interesting visualisations in the report. Some Pew research shows that a growing number of people view China, rather than the United States, as the world's chief economic power: WEF And in Europe specifically, it looks like very few people are putting a lot of trust in the European Union: WEF FREE AppDownload
The World Bank has data on income inequality for most countries in the world. A common measure of inequality is the Gini Index, which describes how far away a country's income distribution is from complete equality. In the World Bank data, the index ranges between 0 and 100: A country with a totally flat income distribution, in which every person received the same income, would have a Gini index of 0; a country with a completely unequal distribution, where one person got all of the income and everyone else earned nothing, would have an index of 100. The World Bank's data set included 112 countries for which data was available for at least one year between 2008 and 2013. This map shows the most recently available Gini Index for each country in that data set: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from the World Bank Most of the countries with the highest indexes, and thus the most inequality, were in Africa and Latin America. Eastern and Northern Europe were highly represented in the most equal countries at the other end of the spectrum. The US and China fell in the middle of the list. The World Bank's estimate of the Gini Index for the US was 41.1, and China at 42.1, both slightly higher than the average among all countries of 38.8. Here are the ten most unequal countries in the World Bank's data set, along with the income shares of the top and bottom ends of the income spectrum: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from the World Bank And here are the ten least unequal countries: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from the World Bank The full World Bank data set, along with a number of other measures of income distribution and poverty, can be found here.
CrossFit is a wildly popular core strength and conditioning workout. Here are three exercises Christian Fox from CrossFit South Brooklyn showed us to improve upper body strength. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis Follow BI Video: On Twitter
The Federal Reserve's stimulative bond buying program, aka quantitative easing, is over. This means a number of things for the markets, but among the notable side effects is that now, conventional wisdom says, we are finally facing the real countdown to the Fed’s first interest rate increase. During the market volatility seen during October, the market's expectations for the Fed's first interest rate hike got pushed out to the third quarter of next year from the second. Implying, basically, that the Fed will raise rates at its September 2015 meeting, not its June 2015 meeting. But a big market theme over the last few years has been that the Fed will stay "lower for longer" when it does raise rates. In our latest Most Important Charts in the World feature, Gerard Minack of Minack Advisors notes that the threshold for where interest rates risk pushing the US economy into recession has been falling over the last thirty years.  "The peak in the real Fed funds rate required to trigger recession has fallen in every cycle since the 1980s," Minack writes. "This pattern reflects lower trend growth and rising leverage — both of which tend to reduce the 'neutral' policy rate. This pattern will continue, in my view." And if the "peak" Fed funds rate that the market can tolerate has fallen, the Fed faces quite a pickle, as it might be damned if it does and damned if it doesn’t.  "The peak in the real Fed funds rate required to trigger recession will likely make a new low. 1% real could cripple growth. Worse, if the peak in rates is so low, it will leave the Fed little room to battle the next downturn." Though before the Fed faces the task of battling the next recession, it is likely to confront the specter of raising interest rates for the first time. But does it really have anywhere to take them? "Lower for longer" indeed. Business Insider FREE AppDownload
Can U.S. equities sustain this rally? Despite the Dow Jones Industrial Average high made on Nov. 6, the New York Stock Exchange Cumulative Advance/Decline Line remains 1.1 percent lower than its peak on Aug. 29. Historically, a persistent divergence between the DJIA and the Advance/Decline Line usually leads to a major correction in equities. Whether or not the Advance/Decline Line can catch up with the increase in equity prices over the next few weeks will determine whether the current rally is sustainable. Guggenheim Partners FREE AppDownload
Did you miss something on the internet this week? No matter who you are, the answer is probably yes. We’re here to help you catch up. Here’s a smattering of excellent posts, both short and long, from the last few days that make for a good weekend read. A reminder that not all oil is created equal — Izabella Kaminska Did ending QE hurt the Fed’s credibility? Ryan Avent says yes. Jared Bernstein says maybe. "This suggests that whatever is happening in the conference room reinforces men’s aspirations while eroding women’s" — Bain &amp; Company Matt Bruenig rethinks gentrification Matt Taibbi is back, taking on JPMorgan — Rolling Stone The Dads of Tech — Astra Taylor and Joanne McNeil Annals of former Goldman employees: "Lam says his quality of life is much better, now that his coworkers are dogs." — Melissa Cronin The was a bitcoin Ponzi scheme (are you surprised?) — Matt Levine Inefficient markets, wedding dress edition — Alyssa Rosenberg Is learning economics bad for MBAs? — Noah Smith “47. As the Twitter essay has increased in popularity, there has been a backlash.” — Jeet Heer Cultural interlude: Why Banksy is probably a woman — Kriston Capps Self promotion: American households are saving $42 per month on lower gas prices — Akin Oyedele 10 tiny flats you can buy in London for the same price as these £1 million mansions - Mike Bird Bill Gross: 'I am a philosophical nomad disguised in western clothing' — Myles Udland If you can explain what happens when smoke comes off a cigarette, you’ll get a $1 million prize — Andy Kiersz Former bank CEO says he led a double life as a CIA agent and hunted Osama Bin Laden — Elena Holodny Here’s what stocks did the last time the GOP took Congress with a sitting Democratic president — Sam Ro A single number explains why radical leftist politics are here to stay in Spain — Me FREE AppDownload
For the last five years, Germany has been an oasis of good news in the midst of the European debt crisis storm. But a recent spate of negative economic news indicates that Europe’s largest economy is finally experiencing its own nasty weather. Slowing growth in Asia, Russian sanctions, and a painfully slow European recovery are putting a strain on the very thing to which Germany owes its resilience – its high-value exports. Credit Suisse believes this is the beginning of a fundamental recalibration of an economy that analysts call the most unbalanced in the world. In the second quarter, German GDP fell 0.2 percent over the previous quarter, the first decline in two years. In August, German exports fell 1 percent over the previous year, with sales outside Europe declining 4.7 percent. The German government’s monthly manufacturing survey registered a 4 percent monthly decline in August, with the capital goods that drive German exports absorbing an 8.8 percent hit. New orders fell 5.7 percent, with foreign orders down 8.4 percent, compared to 2 percent for domestic orders. The manufacturing declines are comparable with those of the Great Recession. Unsurprisingly, business sentiment fell for the sixth straight month in October. Noting that later-than-usual school holidays played some role in the gloomy August results, Credit Suisse economists expect disappointing German manufacturing data to improve, if only slightly, in the coming months. Indeed, the manufacturing purchasing managers’ index rose from a 15-month low of 49.9 in September to 51.4 in October, and consumer sentiment also nudged higher. But calendar irregularities can’t explain everything. Credit Suisse says Germany is suffering disproportionately from an Asian-led slowdown in global growth, revealing the risks inherent in allowing domestic demand to stagnate and relying too heavily on exports. Policymakers and economists from the U.S. Treasury, International Monetary Fund, and European Commission have been warning for more than a year that the German economy will have to recalibrate if euro-zone growth is to fully recover. Those calls have only grown louder of late. The preferred solution among policy analysts is for the German government to implement fiscal stimulus to nudge German savers to spend on both domestic and imported goods and services. That hasn’t happened, though President Angela Merkel recently alluded vaguely to the potential for government investment in digital and energy technologies. Still, Credit Suisse says Germany’s trade surplus is unsustainable, and will eventually shift no matter what she does. A primary problem: Germany has become more exposed to economies with long-term, structural growth problems over the past decade, as exports to developed countries have fallen and those to Russia, China and other Asian emerging markets have risen. Industrial production growth in Asia, which accounts for 45 percent of the global manufacturing economy, was close to zero between March and September. Chinese GDP grew just 7.3 percent in the third quarter, the lowest rate since 2009. Credit Suisse expects Asian emerging markets, ex-China, to stabilize soon, but China’s moderation is a more fundamental and long-lasting shift. Meanwhile, Russia’s economy was already foundering at the beginning of this year, and the sanctions have only made things worse. German exports to Russia were down 26 percent on an annual basis in August. Finally, the euro-zone’s stubborn failure to reach escape velocity is worrisome because European countries are still Germany’s most important export markets. Given that Germany accounts for the bulk of the euro zone’s 1 percent annual GDP growth, weakness there will put a damper on overall regional growth. It could also spread trouble to central and northern European economies that make parts for German goods or to euro-zone countries such as France that sell to Germany. There’s also a risk that the uncertain outlook will cause German companies to cut spending and investment, which could further damage consumer sentiment and domestic demand. Though Credit Suisse believes global economic growth troughed in August, they expect German growth to remain anemic at best. With Germany still wavering about fiscal stimulus and other European countries struggling merely to balance their budgets, the European Central Bank is Europe’s best hope for stimulus. Credit Suisse economists say an announcement of sovereign bond buying could help European economies by weakening the euro, but Germany would benefit less than others — a recent ECB paper shows that German exports benefit more from fluctuations in demand than in price. Exporting their way to strong economic growth was a good strategy for a long time. But time catches up with us all. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile picture of China's President Xi Jinping attends a meeting in CaracasBEIJING (Reuters) - Chinese President Xi Jinping said on Saturday China will establish a $40 billion infrastructure fund to build a new Silk Road, the official Xinhua news agency reported. Xi made the comments at a dialogue meeting on strengthening connectivity and improving cooperation in the country's neighborhood, said Xinhua. Attending the meeting were the leaders of Bangladesh, Cambodia, Laos, Mongolia, Myanmar, Pakistan and Tajikistan, and representatives of the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO), Xinhua said.  (Reporting by Paul Carsten and Ben Blanchard; Editing by Jeremy Laurence) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Burger King logo is pictured in the Brooklyn borough of New YorkMUMBAI (Reuters) - U.S. fast food chain Burger King Worldwide  will open about 12 outlets in India over the next 60-90 days, Rajeev Varman, chief executive of the hamburger chain's India unit said on Saturday. The chain announced last year a tie-up with the Everstone Group to develop the Burger King brand presence in the country. In India, the hamburger chain has changed its menu to sell mutton, chicken and veggie sandwiches. "In the long run, India is going to be one of the largest markets globally. Burger King most certainly sees India as one of the biggest opportunities in the future," Varman said ahead of the chain's first store opening in New Delhi. Burger King is a late entrant in the country. Rival McDonald's Corp  has been around for close to two decades and has already grown its network in tier two and three cities. "Turkey, China and Russia are each growing by around 100 restaurants a year. Here in India, we will set up our first few restaurants and use that to fine-tune our operating model before determining our growth plans," Varman said in an email.  (Reporting by Nivedita Bhattacharjee) FREE AppDownload
