BRISBANE Australia (Reuters) - President Barack Obama sought on Saturday to reassure Asia-Pacific allies about Washington’s strategic shift toward the region as he sent a veiled message to a rising China with a vow to "deepen our engagement using every element of our power". Speaking in Australia on the final stop of a three-country regional tour, Obama insisted that Asia’s security order must not be based on "coercion or intimidation ... where big nations bully the small, but on alliances for mutual security". Although Obama did not explicitly point the finger at China, there was little doubt that he was alluding to Beijing’s maritime disputes with its neighbors and growing concern in the region about its military build-up. "No one should ever question our resolve or our commitments to our allies," Obama said in a policy speech at Queensland University in Brisbane, where he is attending a G20 summit. Obama, who visited Beijing for an Asia-Pacific summit this week and held talks with President Xi Jinping, sought to show renewed resolve to follow through on his much-touted "pivot" to the region, involving military, diplomatic and economic assets. The policy is widely seen as intended to counter China’s rising influence, although Obama, at a news conference with Xi earlier in the week, denied there was any desire to contain Beijing. The Obama administration has billed the pivot to the region as a centerpiece of its foreign policy since it was announced in his first term. But many in Asia are looking for further proof that the policy is real, especially with Obama’s agenda dominated by crises ranging from the battle against Islamic State militants and the conflict in Ukraine to the spread of Ebola. Obama made clear that in addition to security, Washington was determined to expand trade, a goal underscored by efforts to forge a trans-Pacific trade partnership in difficult negotiations that so far exclude China. But even as Obama hailed the region’s "dynamism," he warned of potential threats. "We see dangers that could undermine this progress," he said, citing North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs, disputes over territory that threaten to spiral into confrontation and the failure to uphold universal human rights. Obama also used his speech to formally announce a $3 billion U.S. contribution to an international fund to help poor countries cope with the effects of climate change. Obama’s challenge now, with just two years left in his presidency, is to overcome scepticism about whether his administration can fully engage while it is preoccupied with problems elsewhere.   (Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan) FREE AppDownload
Deadline reported this week that DreamWorks Animation and Hasbro were in talks to create a combined family entertainment company that would be called DreamWorks-Hasbro, and said the deal is at least 60 days away from being finalized.  But according to Variety, citing sources, those talks are now over. The sources say that the reason the talks ended was because of the unfavorable reception Wall Street gave the news on Wednesday. Analysts were wary of the possibility, saying that the move made little sense for Hasbro, among other concerns.  "We don't see a plausible argument for why HAS would pay 41% of its current market capitalization for a company which, according to its CEO is facing serious challenges," media analyst Vasily Karasyov of Sterne Agee wrote. "Films profitability continues to decline and the ramp in consumer product revenue the bulls hoped for isn't coming: the revenue stream is down 21% so far in 2014."  Neither of the companies officially confirmed to Variety that the talks ended. This isn't the first time that DreamWorks merger talks ended right after they began. In September, Japan's SoftBank was rumored to be interested in purchasing the animation studio. But talks apparently slowed down soon after.  FREE AppDownload
Halliburton has moved to overthrow the board of their rival Baker Hughes, according to The Wall Street Journal. This comes after talks of merging between the two reportedly hit a snag. The WSJ notes that Friday was deadline day to nominate directors to Baker Hughes's board. The Journal says "Baker Hughes’s directors are all up for election every year, meaning Halliburton could seize control with one fell swoop." “Baker Hughes is disappointed that Halliburton has chosen to seek to replace the entire Baker Hughes board rather than continue the private discussions between the parties,” Baker Hughes CEO Martin Craighead told the Wall Street Journal. Late Friday, a report from Bloomberg, citing people familiar with the matter, said that merger talks between the two sides have stalled over concerns regarding price and the potential sale of assets. Bloomberg said the two sides anticipate they would need to sell up to $10 billion in assets for the deal to receieve regulatory approval. News of the talks, first reported by The Wall Street Journal on Thursday afternoon, sent Baker Hughes shares sharply higher, and after trading near $49 on Thursday afternoon, the stock closed Friday's session at $59.89.  In after hours trade on Friday, Baker Hughes shares were down about 2%. Halliburton shares, meanwhile, were down about 1%. FREE AppDownload
Robert Johnson — Business InsiderA Williston oil man.NEW YORK (Reuters): Unfazed by slumping oil prices and battering in the stock market, firms that supply sand and guar gum for shale oil and gas companies are not ready yet to call an end to a four-year boom spurred by hydraulic fracturing technology. Just putting on a brave face as a downturn looms? Perhaps, but the optimism could also reflect confidence that the U.S. shale industry is more resilient to retreating oil prices than investors might think. Oil prices have fallen 30 percent since late June and shares of such firms as U.S. Silica Holdings &lt;slca.n&gt; and Hi Crush &lt;hclp.n&gt;, which supply sand to U.S. drillers, followed, dumped by investors anticipating 2015 output cuts and a drop in demand. However, the service companies say business remains as strong as ever. Furthermore, they point out that most of their supply has been bought under long term contracts meaning next year should be good too. "We have not seen any data or had any discussions that indicate lower demand for our sand," said Robert Rasmus, Co-Chief Executive Officer of sand producer Hi-Crush after the company reported record third quarter revenues this week. Hi Crush's share price has fallen more than 40 percent since the beginning of September, but Rasmus said almost 90 percent of the company's sand output was sold for 2015. His comments echoed those of other firms that supply sand and other materials to oil drillers. U.S. Silica Holdings, whose oil and gas sector revenues doubled in the third quarter of this year, remains upbeat about its outlook. "We are actively engaged in conversations with our customers about their future growth, and none has brought down their estimated requirements," chief executive officer Bryan Shinn told investors last week. Demand for sand and the powder-like gum made from guar seeds has soared in recent years. Both are used in what is known as "completion" of an oil well, which occurs after drilling and during fracking to keep open tiny fractures in shale rock to allow oil to escape.   REBOUND HOPES? Analysts say that in contrast to investors who have already priced in a drop in 2015 output because of sliding oil prices, service firms may still hope for a rebound and hold off with cutting their outlooks. Their optimism could also be a sign that the shale oil boom, which has transformed U.S. energy industry since the end of last decade, has enough momentum to keep output and service firms' business rising next year and perhaps beyond even as some drillers already start cutting their 2015 investment plans. Industry experts say existing wells that have been drilled but not yet fracked will keep output surging for months and many have hedged next year's production well above current prices Furthermore, while U.S. oil prices hit a three-year low below $76 a barrel this week, several shale oil firms have indicated they would remain profitable if prices stayed above $70. That said, a further slide and protracted weakness could force shale oil companies and their suppliers, many of which have yet to weather a downturn, to pull back. Some clouds are already appearing. Diamondback Energy, an oil producer in the Permian Basin in Texas, said this week that it would start 2015 with five drilling rigs and wait to see what oil prices do before adding three more rigs as earlier planned. Other firms have also signaled potential 2015 spending cuts should oil prices remain low or slide further, eventually weighing on their suppliers' business. Analysts are closely watching the oil rig count for any early signs of a slowdown. The number of oil rigs in North America is near all-time high, according to a weekly survey from service firm Baker Hughes. "It all depends how low oil prices go and how long they stay there - and the jury is still out on that," said Judith Dwarkin, director of energy research at ITG Investment Research in Calgary. "We will be watching the rig deployment." In the meantime, some firms still bet on a continued shale boom. United Guar, a Houston-based firm that supplies guar gum to U.S. drillers, plans to triple its processing capacity over the next 18 months, the company's chief executive Aamer Sarfraz said in an interview, confident that prices will recover. "I don't care if fracking slows in the United States," Sarfraz said. "You have to take a longer term view."   (Reporting By Edward McAllister; Editing by Tomasz Janowski) FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - An improving U.S. economy has failed to galvanize the consumer discretionary sector so far this year, but a recent rally in restaurant stocks as the holidays approach could herald happier days ahead for other retailers. The S&amp;P 500 consumer discretionary sector index is up about 3 percent for the year, with only the S&amp;P energy index performing worse. One recent ray of sunshine, however, has been the performance of restaurant stocks. The Dow Jones U.S. Restaurants &amp; Bars Index index has risen about 4 percent since the beginning of September. The S&amp;P 500 consumer discretionary sector index is up less than 1 percent for the period. Usually restaurant stocks correlate well with other retailers, but at the moment consumers are showing a preference for dining out over buying apparel, said Oscar Sloterbeck, senior managing director at Evercore ISI. Shares of Buffalo Wild Wings Inc, Domino's Pizza Inc, Darden Restaurants Inc and Cracker Barrel Old Country Store Inc have all risen sharply since the beginning of September. A broadening job recovery and lower gas prices are encouraging middle-income consumers to dine out again. “The quickest path to the consumer might be through their belly,” said Michael Arone, chief investment strategist at State Street Global Advisors in Boston. Other discretionary stocks will also see an effect, but with a lag, he said. While the better performance at restaurants may have more to do with an increased check size for the average diner, there is a growing belief that consumer discretionary companies will see more spending thanks to lower energy prices. The average price of a regular gallon of gasoline is $2.914, down from $3.186 a month ago, in the longest sustained decline for prices since 2008, according to AAA. This is likely to boost consumer discretionaries in the next couple of months, said Charles Sizemore, chief investment officer at Sizemore Capital Management. Retailers reported strong sales in October in an encouraging sign for the sector, Friday data showed. Traders in the options market, however, do not seem to be expecting fireworks from the retail sector this holiday season. The 30-day implied volatility, a gauge of the risk of large moves in a stock, for the SPDR S&amp;P retail fund was at 16 percent on Friday and in the 16th percentile of its 52-week range, Livevol Inc data shows. "With overall volatility low, if consumer spending through the holiday season turns out to be better-than-forecast that would be a big win for anyone making that bet in the option market," said Ophir Gottlieb, chief executive of Los Angeles-based Capital Market Laboratories.   (Reporting by Saqib Iqbal Ahmed; Editing by Nick Zieminski) FREE AppDownload
APThe big oil merger between Baker Hughes and Halliburton might not happen after all. Late Friday, a report from Bloomberg, citing people familiar with the matter, said that merger talks between the two sides have stalled over concerns regarding price and the potential sale of assets. Bloomberg said the two sides anticipate they would need to sell up to $10 billion in assets for the deal to receieve regulatory approval. News of the talks, first reported by The Wall Street Journal on Thursday afternoon, sent Baker Hughes shares sharply higher, and after trading near $49 on Thursday afternoon, the stock closed Friday's session at $59.89.  In after hours trade on Friday, Baker Hughes shares were down about 2%. Halliburton shares, meanwhile, were down about 1%. Bloomberg's report said an alternative for Halliburton could be to make an unsolicited offer for Baker Hughes and nominate a slate of directors to its board. This report comes after Baker Hughes on Friday morning confirmed the talks.  FREE AppDownload
Alexander Grothendieck, one of the most important mathematicians of the twentieth century, died at 86 on Thursday, Nov. 13, 2014. Grothendieck's main mathematical contributions were to the field of algebraic geometry. Algebraic geometry is the study of the curves (and higher-dimensional analogues) formed by the solutions of algebraic equations, linking together the algebraic concepts of equations and numbers with the geometric ideas of shapes and curves. In the 1960s, Grothendieck and his contemporaries revolutionized algebraic geometry by establishing a powerful and abstract foundation for the subject. The techniques and generalizations originally developed by Grothendieck became the main set of tools used by mathematicians working in algebraic geometry for the last fifty years. Grothendieck's reinvention of the foundations of algebraic geometry led to countless discoveries in the field in the last half century. His techniques were a necessary tool in the work done by Maryam Mirzakhani that earned her the historic first Fields Medal awarded to a woman earlier this summer. In 1970, at the age of 42, Grothendieck started to turn away from mathematics and later from society in general. As mathematician Winfried Scharlau wrote in a brief biographical note on Grothendieck, "he turned to the problems of environmental protection and ecology, he supported the antinuclear power movement, and he fought against military buildup, especially of nuclear weapons, and the military-industrial complex". Through the 1970s and 1980s, Grothendieck became ever more reclusive. While he no longer worked in a conventional mathematical setting, Grothendieck would write incredibly long "meditations" that would be shared with only at most a handful of his peers. The subjects of these meditations varied from further developments in algebraic geometry to long, winding mystical speculations. Grothendieck was a truly brilliant mathematician, and in the twenty years he was active in the field, he reinvented the way we understand equations and curves.  FREE AppDownload
screenshot/"The Usual Suspects""And like that ... he's gone."FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisers. An Ex-Broker Who Stole $1 Million From Clients Is Missing (Financial Planning) "The SEC has filed an action against an ex-broker for allegedly misappropriating at least $1 million from some of his clients, and apparently trying to hide his actions by transferring small sums to his personal account more than 100 times," writes Andrew Welsch. The ex-broker, Eric William Johnson, has not been located. This is his first violation on his BrokerCheck card, and Finra has permanently barred him from the industry. It's unclear what happened to the money. Stocks Suffered When Central Banks Reversed Rate Hikes (Charles Schwab) "Market watchers tend to worry about when central banks will begin to raise interest rates, but the real risk may be whether those rate hikes have to be reversed. Over the past five years, stock markets have suffered in several countries when central banks had to reverse course on rate hikes," writes Jeffrey Kleintop. The Fed and the Bank of England should learn from other countries. According to Charles Schwab analysts, both might raise rates slowly relative to past rate hikes, and will end those rate hikes at "lower levels than in the past." They may follow the precedent set by the Bank of Canada, which increased rates by only 1% in 2010, and has kept them that way since then. For investors, rate hikes could be a good thing — provided that they are accompanied with sustainable growth. Unfortunately, if the rate hikes "prove to be much like the others over the past five years, policy makers may be forced to lower them right back down again — and bring the stock market down with them," writes Kleintop. The New Non-Transparent Active ETFs Given Investors An Added Choice On Returns (Wealth Management) The SEC recently approved non-transparent actively-managed ETFs (but they can't officially be called ETFs). This new structure creates a hybrid mutual fund slash ETF that is more tax efficient, but cheaper than a traditional mutual fund. Additionally, it keeps the active style of the fund. "Under the ETF type structure the ETMF produces savings because the trading costs can be transferred to the market makers and away from the fund. This alone should add to the performance of the traditional mutual fund," writes Richard Keary. It's Premature To Worry About What Oil Prices Will Do To The High-Yield Bond Market (Advisor Perspectives)  "Despite all the fears of lower oil prices, the broad high-yield bond market still returned 1.2% in October 2014 as global growth subsided, in contrast to an 11.7% drop in oil prices. We believe it is premature to view the drop in oil prices as a threat to the broad high-yield bond market," write the analysts from LPL Financial. In fact, they argue that it's not oil prices that are affecting the high-yield bond market, but rather the issuance surge. Although in the past there's been a correlation between a decline oil prices and pullbacks in the high-yield bond market, LPL Financial analysts suggest that "the cause of weakness in these cases has primarily been economic concerns with lower oil prices a result of growth fears and not necessarily a driver." Investors Who Use Mobile Financial Apps See Greater Returns (Think Advisor) Investors who use mobile financial applications outperform those who do not, according to a new study by Fidelity. Greater than 40% of investors who use financial apps saw returns of greater than 20% over the last 12 months. Only 22% of their "low-tech counterparts" said the same thing. 70% of those who use financial mobile apps believe that "this gives them an advantage over other investors," reports Janet Levaux. Additionally, 56% of survey respondents to investing tasks on mobile financial apps, including research and charting, fundamental research, reading analyst reports, and trading at least one time per month, according to Levaux. FREE AppDownload
These sanctions are "contrary to the principles of the WTO, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the so-called GATT. The United States created this organization once upon a time, but now they themselves are grossly violating these principles," Putin said in the interview. The sanctions that several G20 countries have taken against Russia "run counter to the very principles of G20 activities, and not only the activities of the G20 and its principles, they are counter to international law — because these sanctions can only be introduced by the United Nations and its Security Council," he added. Earlier this year, the US and the EU imposed a series of sanctions on finance, energy and defense sectors in Russia. The sanctions were instituted in an effort to further isolate Russia politically and economically, and in particular, to hurt the "areas of importance to President Putin and those close to him," according to President Obama. In retaliation, Russia banned imports of certain Western goods. "[The sanctions are] harmful, and of course, they cause damage to us, but they're also harmful to them — because they undermine the entire system of economic relations. I really hope, I assume, that this will ultimately be understood and will remain in the past," Putin added. The Russian economy has taken a serious beating following the sanctions. For starters, the ruble is now in free fall and inflation is way above target.  Meanwhile, falling oil prices have put immense pressure on the economy. Putin said on Friday that the Russian economy is prepared for a "catastrophic decline in energy prices." Because the Russian economy is so dependent on oil, a sustained decline in oil prices could impede Russia's ability to meet financial obligations. Consequently, in an effort to shift away from reliance on Europe and the United States, Russia is currently exploring partnerships with China.  Although Putin spoke at length about the sanctions during the interview, he insists that he will not bring up any of this during the G20 Summit, which is currently going on in Australia. "If [the discussion over the sanctions] comes up, then of course I will say this, but I myself have no intention of bringing up these questions in discussion — I think that it is useless. Everyone understands anyway," he said. You can watch the whole interview at "Vesti" here. FREE AppDownload
Earlier this week, Boston University student newspaper The Daily Free Press — known as the FreeP — was in serious trouble. Student editors announced that the newspaper, which is independent from the university, had to raise close to $70,000 by the end of the year in order to continue publishing a print version. The FreeP's leadership decided to turn to crowdsourced fundraising, launching a page on GoFundMe. As the page explained, even though the paper had seriously cut costs by switching from a daily publishing schedule to a weekly model, their publisher wanted to resolve a significant portion of their debt by the end of 2014. "As of November 1, 2014, The FreeP's total debt is $67,953.19 ... If we have not resolved a majority of this debt by December 31st, 2014, BU's only print newspaper will cease to exist," according to the FreeP's GoFundMe page. Two days after launching their GoFundMe campaign, the FreeP announced that they had already exceeded their goal, raising nearly $20,000 from small online donations and receiving two major donations that would save the paper — $50,000 from local car dealer Ernie Boch Jr. and $10,000 from Fox News host Bill O'Reilly. Business Insider spoke to O'Reilly — who spent three semesters as a FreeP columnist while in BU's journalism masters program — about his experiences at the student newspaper and why he decided to help save it. Aside from the hockey team, O'Reilly said, there's not much that unites BU's massive student body — there are more than 30,000 students currently on campus, including undergraduates and graduate students. During his time as a student in the 1970s, the FreeP provided a space for students to write letters and offer their opinions about issues on campus. "The paper was that [unifying force], because it was during the end of the Vietnam situation and there was a lot of stuff going on … It was the one vehicle that gathered students together," O'Reilly said. As a student columnist, the FreeP helped O'Reilly hone his voice as a writer, as he covered major issues such as Boston's school bus desegregation. O'Reilly said that his positive experiences at the paper motivated him to help keep it afloat. "We had a blast, it was just a great experience ... I wanted other students at the school to have the same experience I did," he said. Part of the benefit of being on the FreeP staff is the hands-on experience students get outside of the classroom. O'Reilly compared being a journalist to being a professional athlete. Because journalism is so competitive, he said, "You have to get experience, you have to train." Students also have the rare opportunity to work at an independent organization. The FreeP makes money through advertising, and takes no funding from BU. In fact, the paper actually pays the university to rent space on campus. "It's a very positive experience when you have a newspaper not run by teachers," O'Reilly said, in part because remaining independent allows the BU student journalists to critique the school. "When we were there, [the FreeP] was a pain in the butt" to the university's administration, O'Reilly said. The other major donor to the FreeP's fund is Ernie Boch Jr., a local car dealer. Boch is currently traveling, and was not available to speak with Business Insider, but his spokesperson Peggy Rose sent the following statement on his behalf: Newspapers at the local, regional, daily and, yes, collegiate level are all vital parts of our democracy. A vibrant newspaper ensures for a free exchange of ideas and Boston University's independent student-run newspaper, The Daily Free Press, should continue to have that opportunity for its readers. On behalf of Subaru of New England, I am donating $50,000.00 to the fundraising campaign that will ensure the print version of The Daily Free Press stays alive and viable. START THE PRESSES. Now that the FreeP is funded and will continue to print, the newspaper will hopefully remain a vehicle for student's voices on campus. According to O'Reilly, a strong student newspaper will provoke debate. "We were successful because we were feisty and aggressive and we stirred it up," O'Reilly said. "You have to stir it up, just like I do now on television." FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVDavid TepperDavid Tepper, founder of Appaloosa Management, bought 725,000 shares of Alibaba in the third quarter, according to government filings. The online retailed was recently spun out of Yahoo and made public in a massive IPO. Tepper, the highest paid hedge fund manager in 2013 taking home $3.5 billion, also lowered his stake in Apple and Citigroup.   FREE AppDownload
Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway just released its latest 13F filing with the SEC, giving an update of its holdings as of September 30.  Among the holdings that Buffett increased were his stakes in credit card giants Visa and Mastercard, as well as IBM. A 13F requires funds to disclose their long positions within 45 days of a quarter's end, and so Friday's filing represents Buffett's holdings as of June 30. Buffett increased his stake in Mastercard by 16% bringing his holdings to more than 4.7 million shares, while increasing his Visa stake by 19% to more than 2.1 million shares. Buffett added just 0.4% to his IBM stake. Buffett didn't add to subtract from his largest holdings including Wells Fargo, American Express, or Coca-Cola during the third quarter.  Buffett's biggest increased holding, on a percentage basis, was Charter Communications, as Buffett more than doubled his holding in the company to more than 4.9 million shares from around 2.3 million as of June 30.  Some of the notable decreases were from Buffett's holding in ConocoPhillips and Phillips 66, while Buffett sold the remainder of his stake in farm equipment maker John Deere. FREE AppDownload
With mixologists around the country rediscovering vintage spirits and historic drink recipes, artisanal cocktail bars have spread like wildfire in recent years. Still, some bars outshine the rest, becoming destinations in their own right. With customized glasses and unique ice creations, top bartenders are pulling out all the stops when it comes to concocting the perfect sip. Whether you prefer it shaken or stirred, bitter or sweet, you'll find the perfect libation at the 10 best cocktail bars in America. Cheers! The AviaryWhere: Chicago  Libations are elevated to modern art at The Aviary, which serves truly inventive takes on liquor-cabinet staples. Created and run by Grant Achatz and Nick Kokonas, the bar features a sleek, modern interior, showcasing the bartenders-cum-chemists who meticulously formulate each concoction. Offering a unique ticket system in advance, patrons who plan ahead can arrange for a five-course food and cocktail pairing, the best way to taste the multitude of cocktails on offer. Though reservations are recommended, walk-ins are welcome too. What to Drink: Served in a circular, narrow glass pitcher, the Tropic Thunder ($24) features tequila infused with wild lime, hibiscus, and grilled pineapple, accented to great effect in presentation. ApothekeWhere: New York City Tucked away in a small corner of bustling Chinatown, Apothéke has no sign nor clear point of entry. A former opium den, this apothecary-themed cocktail bar is styled with Old Europe in mind. Mixologists in lab coats precisely pour aged bottles of spirits and garnish them with various accoutrements. The cocktail offering changes seasonally and features local and organic produce, herbs, and botanicals. With no mention of prices on the menu, expect to spend around $16–$20 per drink. What to Drink: The Cherry Licorice ($18) features single-malt scotch, tart cherries, absinthe essence, and house-made cherry bitters; it's served on the rocks and garnished with cherry licorice. AcabarWhere: Los Angeles Ornate, Moroccan-crafted arches set the stage for playful cocktails and international flavors at Los Angeles’ year-old Acabar. With a menu created by bar directors Josh Goldman and Julian Cox, seasonal cocktails are sorted creatively by their characteristics, such as bitter, floral, and fruity. If you're indecisive, simply tell the bartender your flavor preference and they’ll choose the cocktail that best suits you. Acabar stands out for its thorough research and historical reference in crafting its drinks, which come complete with cocktail histories. What to Drink: Rittenhouse Rye 100 and sweet vermouth meet house-made cherry brandy and absinthe in the aromatic Remember the Maine ($12), served on the rocks. Kondor83/ShutterstockWhere: New Orleans A small but mighty offering of eight original cocktails quench sophisticated thirsts at New Orleans' rustic Cane &amp; Table. At this French Quarter spot, the cocktails are complex and the candlelit atmosphere harkens back to yesteryear with exposed brick and wood. Eclectic small plates such as pineapple carpaccio and squash-blossom cangrejitosmake way for larger plates of ropa vieja, cauliflower paella, and grilled yardbird. Friendly bartenders with Southern charm keep the drinks flowing, with a steady beat of house music completing the scene. What to Drink: Beat the humidity of New Orleans with the Watermelon Man ($10), served up with watermelon and basil shrub poured over sparkling wine. New York Distilling CompanyWhere: Brooklyn You might not expect to find a distillery in the middle of Brooklyn, but that's exactly where you'll find New York Distilling Company, which opened a few years ago in response to a growing demand for complex, unique gin and rye. The Shanty, its adjacent bar, serves three varieties of house-distilled gin—Perry’s Tot Navy Strength Gin, Dorothy Parker American Gin, and Chief Gowanus New-Netherland Gin—and spirits from around the world in an array of crafted cocktails, while candlelight and live music set the scene. On weekends, you can also take tours of the distillery. What to Drink: Get a taste of Dorothy Parker American Gin mixed with sweet vermouth, Angostura bitters, and grapefruit juice in the Sauvetage ($11). New Orleans' 10 Best Bars For Classic Cocktails World's Coolest Under Water Lodgings 10 Perfect Outfits For Long-haul Flights World's 15 Best Waterfront Cities This article originally appeared at Fodor's.  Copyright 2014. Follow Fodor's on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
ScreenshotThese people are totally fine.A bunch of writers at CNBC.com have been let go as the company continues its effort to transition the web property to one that better integrates CNBC's video content. Sources tell Business Insider *eight people may have been laid off. Brian Steel, a spokesman for CNBC, confirmed that there had been personnel changes at the company. "The total bloodbath was unexpected," said one source close to the situation. "They pushed out a lot of loyal, very qualified people." In other words, CNBC employees are just finding out about this as it happens. Those who were laid off were called into HR one by one. "It was like watching people get executed," the source said. It's a clear sign that CNBC is trying to change. The company just brought back John Melloy, who left the company to become CEO of Stocktwits.com. It also hired Eric Chemi, former head of data and research at Bloomberg.  *An earlier version of this post said that about 20 people had been let go. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Arnd Wiegmann Gold ended the week with a big day.Stocks were little changed to close the week, though the S&amp;P 500 inched to a new record high, while the price of gold rallied on Friday. For the week, each of the equity markets finished with modest gains, lead by the Nasdaq's 1% advance. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Friday: 1. In what was otherwise a quiet week for economic data, we got two pieces of positive economic news regarding the health of the US consumer. Retail sales in October rose 0.3% from the prior month, beating expectations for a 0.2% increase, as sales at gasoline stations fell 1.5% against the prior month amid a major bear market for oil. The University of Michigan's preliminary consumer confidence reading for November came in at 89.4, its highest reading since July 2007.  2. Following the retail sales report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said that while sales beat expectations in October, any real boost to consumer spending from the declining price of gas will likely not show up until the November report, though that impact should be larger. Paul Dales at Capital Economics, said the consumer confidence reading indicates there's a good chance "retailers' holiday wishes will be granted." 3. Oil prices keep falling, and Business Insider's Tomas Hirst has the big outline of the three main reasons being cited for the drop in the commodity: slowing growth in Europe and Asia, more supply drive by the US shale boom, and increased global production. And the International Energy Agency said in a recent report, "a return to previous price highs may not be a close prospect, as it is increasingly clear that we have begun a new chapter in the history of the oil markets." 4. Virgin America made its debut on the Nasdaq on Friday, and shares of the airline owned by Richard Branson rose 30% in their debut, giving the company a valuation of about $1.25 billion. The offering was priced at $23, and shares closed Friday's session at around $30. 5. Despite the lack of action in the equity markets, the "flight to safety" trade — which also saw bonds gain — had a little bit momentum on Friday, lead by the price of gold spiking more than 2% to around $1,190, the highest price for the precious metal since it breached $1,200 back at the end of October.   6. Hertz shares fell more than 5% on Friday after the company disclosed that its net income will be reduced by $87 million over its fiscal years 2011, 2012, and 2013 after it restates its financial results following an internal review. The company said the biggest errors identified in its probe related to depreciation for some assets and accounts in Brazil, among other items.  7. It was a quiet week in the markets, but don't let that lull you to sleep. In a midday email, the NYSE's Rich Barry said that markets are in "quiet consolidation mode," but this is okay! "As we noted yesterday, the major indices are technically overbought," Barry wrote. "This means the recent action we've witnessed since the October 15th six-month low has represented nothing less than a buying stampede into stocks. History tells us that 'overbought' scenarios are usually corrected either by an abrupt pullback in prices or by a period of boring, sideways consolidation. Today, we are seeing the latter, but our feeling is that next week we might be confronted with the former. Either way, it is okay." Don't Miss: Credit Suisse Sent Out A Series Of Tweets Giving Its Economic Outlook For 2015 » FREE AppDownload
The S&amp;P 500 fell more than 9% from its September 19 high to its October 15 low. Experts attributed the sell-off to numerous concerns including the prospect of higher interest rates, the deterioration of the European economy, the deceleration of the emerging market economies, and escalating geopolitical tensions from Russia all the way to Iraq. One particularly frightening concern was the spread of the Ebola virus. "A total of 14,413 confirmed, probable, and suspected cases of Ebola virus disease (EVD) have been reported in six affected countries (Guinea, Liberia, Mali, Sierra Leone, Spain, and the United States of America) and two previously affected countries (Nigeria, Senegal) up to the end of 11 November 2014," the World Health Organization. "There have been 5,177 reported deaths." While the human tragedy is immeasurable, most economists have argued that the direct economic impact of the virus is likely to be minimal to almost negligible. However, the indirect impact (i.e. the impact on consumer and investor sentiment) was almost tangible just based on the amount of media coverage it got. Bloomberg chief economist Michael McDonough tweeted this chart overlaying the frequency of ebola-related newswire stories with the VIX, or the CBOE Volatility Index.The VIX, a rough measure of traders' fears spiked as the markets sold off and then receded when the markets came back. As you can see, there's a pretty decent correlation between the number of Ebola virus stories and the magnitude of the VIX. So, is this a spurious correlation? Or did fear of Ebola cause the stock market sell-off? @m_mcdonough FREE AppDownload
Today, hedge funds have to disclose their equity holdings in a Form 13F with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Here's the new 13F filing from SAC Capital, the namesake fund founded by legendary trader Steven A. Cohen.  SEC.gov That's right. It's blank. Reminder: They're now called Point72 Asset Management.  In the summer of 2013, SAC was criminally indicted on insider trading charges. Federal prosecutors charged the fund "with criminal responsibility for insider trading offenses committed by numerous employees and made possible by institutional practices that encouraged the widespread solicitation and use of illegal inside information." SAC pleaded guilty in November 2013 and agreed to pay a $1.8 billion fine.  SAC also agreed to no longer manage outside capital and to operate as a "family office" instead. The fund then changed its name to Point72 Asset Management.  FREE AppDownload
Petros Giannakouris/AP Students gathered outside the University of Athens to demand lower tuition and protest education cuts. They were also commemorating the 1973 student uprising that led to the fall of the former military junta. That's when things got ugly. Riot police showed up and reportedly used tear gas and stun guns. The protests coincided with new economic data announcing the official end of Greece's 6-year recession. It's now the fastest-growing economy in Europe, but things aren't really looking good. Unemployment is still 26.6 percent, the economy is way smaller than it was before the crisis, and it could take decades to get back to pre-recession levels, BI’s Mike Bird reported. That, and a university-wide student lock-out ahead of the anniversary of the Athens uprising, led students to the streets. Here's the view from the trenches (aka YouTube, Vine, and Twitter): Posted by Perseus999 Posted by Skar        And from local media:  FREE AppDownload
Spencer Platt / Getty ImagesPeople will want to read about this.Business Insider is looking for a finance geek to join our growing Markets team. The ideal candidate should be comfortable working with a wide array of financial market and economic topics. Work experience in finance is a plus. The research editor will have an eye for interesting nuggets of information about companies, industries, and markets and economy in general. We get mountains of research notes, papers, and surveys from sell-side firms, consulting firms, government agencies, non-profit organizations, etc. Oftentimes the most interesting and eye-opening stuff come from the buried details. The editor will coordinate with BI's various verticals, pitch ideas, and write regularly. The candidate should have strong communications skills and the ability to separate the boring from the interesting. This job is all about sifting through information to uncover gems. If you are interested, please apply HERE. Include your resume and three journalism clips you are most proud of. Also, feel free to shoot an email to Deputy Editor Sam Ro at sro@businessinsider.com.  This job is full-time and based in our New York City headquarters. Business Insider offers competitive compensation packages complete with benefits.   FREE AppDownload
If the only appliances in your kitchen are an old toaster and a hand-me-down set of dishes, it's time to improve your kitchen game. To help you out, Business Insider has come up with a list of 24 essential items that every proper kitchen needs.  Whether you're shopping for your first apartment, or you just looking to replace some older tools, you'll find what you need on this list. AmazonCuisinart DLC-10S Pro Classic Food processors are a basic necessity in every kitchen. They can chop up vegetables, grind nuts, and purée potatoes. If you need to shred something, just stick it into this contraption. Cuisinart DLC-10S Pro Classic $180.00 $99.94 | Amazon Hamilton Beach Food Processor $36.49 $33.01 | Amazon Cuisinart Mini-Prep Plus $90.00 $47.91 | Amazon Cuisinart DLC-4CHB Mini-Prep Plus $90.00 $47.91 | Amazon VitamixVitamix 5200 Series BlenderBlenders require little introduction — every man's got to make a margarita from time to time. They're also useful for making milkshakes and smoothies. For the absolute top of the line in blenders, look no further than Vitamix: Vitamix 5200 Series Blender $549.99 $448.98| Amazon (Prime Eligible) If you're not in the mood to spend that much, some more affordable options are: Ninja Professional Blender $149.99 $118.00 | Amazon Hamilton Beach Personal Blender with Travel Lid $21.99 $14.85 | Amazon Ninja Master Prep $49.99 $33.99 | Amazon AmazonNorpro 775 Spice GrinderThe name is pretty self-explanatory: a spice grinder grinds spices. If you grind them yourself, your food will be significantly more flavorful. Norpro 775 Spice Grinder $7.97 | Amazon Secura Electric Coffee and Spice Grinder $49.99 $16.99 | Amazon KRUPS F203 Electric Spice and Coffee Grinder with Stainless Steel Blades $19.95 | Amazon   AmazonOlde Thompson 6-inch Caffee Espresso Peppermill and Salt Shaker These look significantly nicer than the salt and pepper containers you buy at the store. Class it up. Olde Thompson 6-inch Caffee Espresso Peppermill and Salt Shaker $24.99 $14.97 | Amazon Old Thompson Tahoe Chrome Peppermill and Salt Shaker $23.99 | Amazon OXO Good Grips Salt and Pepper Grinder Set $49.99 $49.95 | Amazon   AmazonOXO Good Grips 5-Quart Stainless Steel ColanderYou'll need a colander for draining your pasta and rice or for washing salad. OXO Good Grips 5-Quart Stainless Steel Colander $29.99 $29.95 | Amazon ExcelSteel 242 5-Quart Stainless Steel Colander $12.17 | Amazon Chef Craft, 5-Quart Deep Colander $6.99 $6.57 | Amazon Culina 5QT Perforated Stainless Steel Colander with handles $15.95 | Amazon   AmazonWinco MS3A-8D Strainer with Double Fine MeshSieves are similar to colanders, but they're primarily used to sift flour. They help break down the flour into the smallest particles, which makes the flour optimal for baking purposes. Winco MS3A-8D Strainer with Double Fine Mesh $8.26 $7.37 | Amazon OXO Good Grips 8-Inch Double Rod Strainer $22.99 $22.95 | Amazon Cuisinart CTG-00-3MS Mesh Strainers (Set of 3) $22.00 $12.66 | Amazon ZICOME Stainless Steel Food Strainers (Set of 3) $20.58 $12.84 | Amazon   AmazonNew Professional Commercial Grade Stock PotFor anything from corn on the cob to soups and stews, you're going to need a big pot. When you get really good at the whole cooking thing, you can make your own stock for soup. New Professional Commercial Grade Stock Pot $170.00 $115.68 | Amazon T-fal Speciality Stock Pot Cookware $79.99 $34.99 | Amazon Prime Pacific Stainless Steel Stock Pot $62.89 | Amazon   AmazonCast-iron skillets can cook almost anything, including egg dishes, lasagnas, desserts, and roasted vegetables. You can put them on a stove top or in the oven for baking. And if you live in a city, a cast iron can act as a grill substitute, so you won't have to do without quality steaks. Bayou Classic 7434, 14" Cast Iron Skillet $55.00 $25.04 | Amazon King Kooker Cast Iron Skillet, 20-Inch $102.29 $84.13 | Amazon Lodge L10SK3 Pre-Seasoned Skillet, 12-Inch $34.99 $29.99 | Amazon Lodge LCS3 Pre-Seasoned Cast-Iron Chef's Skillet, 10-Inch $26.95 $22.75 | Amazon   Amazon Progressive International Stainless Steel Splatter Screen No one wants hot oil splattering in their face. So get a splatter screen to cover whatever it is that you're cooking. Progressive International Stainless Steel Splatter Screen $18.58 | Amazon Norpor 13-Inch Splatter Screen $22.16 $10.40 | Amazon Calphalon 13" Splatter Guard $19.99 $19.95 | Amazon Home Basics 3-Piece Splatter Screen Set $10.49 | Amazon   AmazonMAC Pro 8 1/2 inchWe don't joke around when it comes to knives. It's worth it to invest in a quality blade, because it will last forever, as long as you take good care of it and sharpen it regularly. MAC Pro 8 1/2 inch $159.95 | Amazon MAC Knife Professional French Chef's Knife, 9 1/2 Inch $184.95 | Amazon MAC Knife Chef Series Hollow Edge Chef's Knife, 8-inch $95.00 $94.94 | Amazon MAC Knife Professional Paring/Utility Knife, 5-inch $75.00 $64.95 | Amazon   AmazonWusthof Gourmet Offset Handle You're probably wondering why you need an offset knife. Easy. The "offset" handle keeps you hand away from surfaces while you cut.  Serrated means that the blade looks like a mini saw, which is useful to cut through foods that are hard on the exterior and soft on the interior. Think a loaf of bread or cabbage. Wusthof Gourmet Offset Handle $75.00 $59.95 | Amazon OXO Good Grips 8 Inch Bread Knife $11.99 $9.99 | Amazon Chicago Cutlery Walnut Tradtion 10-Inch Serrated Bread/Slicing Knife $18.79 $15.96 | Amazon  J.A. Henckels International Classic 5-inch Serrated Utility Knife $70.00 $41.99 | Amazon   AmazonSet of 3 Staineless Steel Service TongsEventually you'll need to move your food without touching it, and for that you need tongs. Set of 3 Staineless Steel Service Tongs $5.78 | Amazon OXO Good Grips 9-inch Locking Tongs $11.99 | Amazon  Precision Kitchenware - Stainless Steel 12" Kitchen Tong $19.99 $7.95 | Amazon StarPack Premium Silicone Tongs 2 Pack (9-inch and 12-inch) $29.95 $18.95 | Amazon   AmazonWincoFST-6 Blade Fish SpatulaFish is more delicate and may break apart if you use tongs. Instead opt for a fish flipper, which can help you get all the sides of your fish prepared. WincoFST-6 Blade Fish Spatula $5.49 | Amazon OXO Good Grips Fish Turner $12.99 $12.95 | Amazon Matfer Bourgeat Exoglass Pelton Spatula $14.44 | Amazon  MIU France Large Stainless Steel Slotted Turner $11.99 $9.99| Amazon   AmazonWilton 570-1121 Easy Flex 3-Piece Spatula Set, Blue To get every last bit of a sauce or batter out of a container, use a spatula. Wilton 570-1121 Easy Flex 3-Piece Spatula Set, Blue $7.46 | Amazon OXO Good Grips 3-Piece Silicone Spatula $11.99 $11.95 | Amazon StarPack Premium Silicone Spatulas (Set of 4) $29.95 $18.95 | Amazon Hampton Direct Kitchen Silicone Spatulas (Set of 6) $24.99 $6.99 | Amazon   FlickrPrecision Kitchenware PK001 Spare yourself the agony of peeling potatoes by hand and just go for a fancy restaurant peeler. Your scab-less, callus-free hands will thank you. Precision Kitchenware PK001 $23.95 $8.95 | Amazon UltraChef Ultra Sharp Stainless Steel Peeler $19.95 $9.95 | Amazon OXO Good Grips Pro Y-Peeler $12.99 $12.95 | Amazon   AmazonOXO Good Grips Wooden Corner SpoonAgain, the name is self-explanatory. But you do want a specific tasting spoon so that you can experiment with salt, pepper, or spice levels right on the spoon — without ruining your dish completely. OXO Good Grips Wooden Corner Spoon $5.99 | Amazon CIA Stirring and Tasting Spoon $5.66 | Amazon Elizabeth Karmel 10 5/8th-inch Bamboo Tasting Spoon $7.08 | Amazon   AmazonMicroplane 40020 Classic Zester/GraterA real man grates his own cheese. A microplane grater can also be used to grate lemons (for lemon zest), onions, and ginger. Microplane 40020 Classic Zester/Grater $14.99 $12.65 | Amazon Microplane 38000 Professional Coarse Grater $16.95 $15.55 | Amazon Microplane 40001 Stainless Steel Zester $9.95 | Amazon   AmazonGrill Pro 2 Piece Silicone Basting BrushTo get the most out of your marinade, apply it to meats or vegetables with a basting brush. GrillPro 2-Piece Silicone Basting Brushes $11.99 $9.99 | Amazon Set of 3 Silicone Basting Brushes $6.24 | Amazon Silicone Basting Pastry and BBQ Brushes (Set of 4) $24.99 $16.99 | Amazon Chef Craft 2-Piece Plastic Basting Brushes (Set of 2) $6.99 | Amazon   AmazonSteven Raichlen Grilling Kebab SkewersOne word: kebabs. You'll need metal skewers to grill meats and vegetables. Definitely worth the investment. Steven Raichlen Grilling Kabob Skewers (set of 6) $16.33 | Amazon Steven Raichlen Kabob Rack with 6 Skewers $29.99 $21.99 | Amazon OutdoorChef Long Stainless Steel Kebab Skewers (2 Dozen) $15.93 | Amazon GrillPro 40538 Stainless Skewers (Set of 6) $15.99 $15.15 | Amazon   AmazonIronwood Gourment Acacia Wood Large End Grain Prep Stations Good knives are expensive, so you're not going to want your cutting board to ruin them immediately. Pick up an end grain cutting board, which is specifically designed to not dull your knife as quickly as a plastic cutting board would. Plus, because of the pattern on the boards, knife marks won't be as visible. Ironwood Gourment Acacia Wood Large End Grain Prep Stations $62.46 | Amazon Catskill Craftsmen 19-inch End Grain Chopping Block $92.98 $47.00 | Amazon John Boos Reversible End Grain Maple Chopping Block $179.95 | Amazon   AmazonBodum Brazil 8-Cup French Press There is a special place in hell reserved whoever decided it was OK to drink ground dirt (commonly referred to as "instant coffee"). Instead, pick up a French press so that you can make a delicious cup for yourself every morning. If a French press is a bit too pretentious for your taste, get a percolator, at least. Bodum Brazil 8-Cup French Press $29.00 $26.25 | Amazon SterlingPro 8-Cup Coffee and Espresso Maker $68.00 $29.95 | Amazon Presto Stainless-Steel Coffee Percolator $49.99 $37.01 | Amazon Faberware 12-Cup Coffee Percolator $79.99 $59.99 | Amazon   AmazonCommercial Grade Kitchen Apron (2-pack Navy blue)You'll need a solid apron to keep your clothes from looking like a Kandinsky painting. Skip the basic butcher-looking apron, and definitely don't get one with a tasteless design (you know the ones we're talking about). Instead, opt for a classic navy, white or gray one.  Commercial Grade Kitchen Apron (2-pack Navy blue) $24.95 $14.94 | Amazon Chef Works White Basic Bib Apron $7.24 | Amazon Low Designs Apron, London Grey $22.00 | Amazon   AmazonKeeble Outets Cotton TowelsTowels for cleaning, mitts for keeping your hands from burning. Not hard. Keeble Outets Cotton Towels (1 dozen) $20.00 $18.99 | Amazon Medline 1 Dozen Herringbone Cotton Dish Towels $11.90 | Amazon Flame Retardant Quilted Oven Mitts Commercial Grade (2-Pack) $19.99 $10.85 | Amazon Kitchen Elements Ultra-Flex Red Cooking Mitts $25.00 $19.27 | Amazon   Did we miss anything? Let us know in the comments. Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission does not have to release records about its supervision of Wall Street's arbitration process to a group of investors' lawyers, a federal appeals court ruled on Friday. The decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ends, at least for now, a long-running battle about the public's right of access to documents about the SEC's oversight over the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority's arbitration system. FINRA, the Wall Street industry-funded watchdog, runs the arbitration forum where investors and brokerages must resolve their legal disputes. The SEC oversees and examines FINRA, which is a private organization. At issue was whether an exemption to the Freedom of Information Act should allow the SEC to keep certain records about arbitration under seal. The court agreed that the SEC had properly invoked the exemption, which protects information contained in "examination reports" that federal agencies use to regulate financial institutions, according to the opinion. The FOIA gives the public access to federal agency records, but it carves out exemptions. In 2010, the SEC claimed such an exemption in turning down a request by the Public Investors Arbitration Bar Association a group of lawyers whose members represent investors in FINRA's arbitration system. PIABA lost again after a second SEC review and filed a lawsuit against the agency. PIABA's president and lawyers representing the group were not immediately available to comment. A spokeswoman for FINRA, which was not a party to the suit, declined to comment. PIABA wanted the documents, related to FINRA's process for picking arbitrators and checking their backgrounds, as a matter of transparency, it has said. Consumers are "forced" into the process when signing agreements to open their brokerage accounts and should know how FINRA determines who hears their cases, PIABA says. The group had argued, among other things, that the FOIA exemption the SEC invoked should protect information related to actual financial examinations and not "administrative activities" such as oversight of FINRA's arbitration process. The court, however, held that the exemption applies to documents the SEC collects while "examining any organization the agency regulates." FREE AppDownload
Stocks aren't doing much Friday, but one asset is having a huge day: gold. In afternoon trade Friday, the precious metal was up more than 2.5%, or about $25 an ounce, to about $1,192. This is the highest level gold has traded at since the metal broke below $1,200 late last month. Overall, gold is still near multiyear lows, but on a day when there is a bit of a "flight to safety" feel in the market, with US Treasury yields falling a bit and precious metals rallying, gold is ending the week on a positive note.   Here's the chart of gold's rally Friday. FinViz Though gold is still in a big downtrend. FRED FREE AppDownload
How should I start investing my money as a 26 year old with no related knowledge? appeared as a question on Quora. Below we are printing part of an answer from growth hacker and entrepreneur Rizwan Aseem. In 2008 I wanted to invest in Apple stock. The price at that time was close to $90. The price today is over $700, that's before adjusting for the 7:1 stock split and dividend. I read all the reports, ran all the numbers, figured out how much money the business was actually worth — it looked like a great investment. Then I read the news reports, financial analysis by "experts" and the doom and gloom reports that were in the media. I read how Apple was about to go down, that investors had lost confidence in Apple being able to innovate, that their last success the "iPod" was a has-been. I read how other companies were giving Apple a run for their money, shipping more units of every product line that Apple had, eating away Apple's market share in its core markets, and destroying Apple by selling similar spec'ed products for half the price. I read the news. Thus I did not invest in Apple. I invested in other places and didn't make as much as I could've made by investing in Apple. In fact, the value of my investment would have been $250,000 higher than it is now. Hindsight is always 20/20 — this taught me a wonderful lesson. You have all the knowledge and experience that you need in the world Also, f--- what the assholes say in the news — do your research and then buy a business. FREE AppDownload
Wiki CommonsOlive Garden is one restaurant to have been hurt by a decline in casual dining. The average American goes out to dinner 74 times a year, The Washington Post's Wonkblog reports, citing the consumer research firm NPD Group. That's the lowest reading in three decades.  The popularity of takeout and prepared foods, like frozen pizzas, has partially contributed to the decline, reports Roberto Ferdman at Wonkblog. But Americans are also worried about cash and are looking to cut back. "Consumers spent roughly 7 percent less on eating out in 2010, compared to the year before, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics," Ferdman writes. "Meanwhile, people are buying more groceries, because it's cheaper." The Federal Reserve Board reports that all groups of consumers had a lower mean income in 2013 than they did in 2007. Mean wealth also declined for all the groups. The trend is hurting business at casual dining establishments like Olive Garden, Applebee's, and Red Lobster.  The restaurants have tried implementing more promotions to lure back customers.  Even McDonald's customers are complaining that the fast-food fare is too expensive, according to a Bloomberg report.  The retail sector is also hurting.  Low-income and middle-class retailers including Wal-Mart, J.C. Penney Co., Target, Macy's, and Family Dollar have reported disappointing earnings this year. Executives at these retailers say that Americans are increasingly unwilling to spend money on discretionary items, despite modest gains in the job market. "Low-end and middle-income retailers are still suffering because people are buying so close to need," Brian Yarbrough, consumer analyst at Edward Jones, told Business Insider. "In the past, retailers could depend on people spending a little more."    FREE AppDownload
Lucas Jackson/ReutersA federal appeals court ruled Friday that Michael Lewis still didn't defame money manager Wing Chau in his best-seller "The Big Short." In April, a lower court sided with Lewis in a 2011 lawsuit accusing him of libel. Chau appealed, and today a federal appeals court rejected it in a 2-1 vote. Chau said Lewis portrayed him and other managers of collateral debt obligations (CDOs) as "villains." He claimed there were 26 defamatory statements in Lewis' 2010 book, which aims to explain the origins of the 2007 financial crisis. He was especially upset about Chapter 6, which describes a discussion between Chau and hedge fund manager Steve Eisman at a dinner in Las Vegas. Before the financial crisis, Chau bought subprime bonds that served as collateral for CDO investors and was particularly good at creating demand for risky bonds that no one would otherwise have ever wanted. This is the part of the book Chau had a problem with: Civil Complaint In the original ruling, U.S. District Judge George Daniels wrote: "A careful review of Chapter 6 of "The Big Short" indicates that the challenged statements are incapable of being reasonably susceptible to any defamatory meaning." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungThe problem is not that PIMCO founder Bill Gross made a $290 million bonus in his last year at the firm, as Bloomberg reported Friday. It's that his performance was abysmal while he made it — something you'll see every now and again because of the way money managers get paid on Wall Street. PIMCO denies that Gross made all that money (also saying it does not comment on compensation). The firm maintains that its compensation structure "provides an important means to attract and retain the best investment talent to serve our clients." You'll hear that a lot on Wall Street, where money managers tend to take a percentage of whatever is in a firm's money pot, however it got there. It's a nifty way to get paid. But before we get into performance, lets put Gross' bonus in perspective. In terms of Wall Street pay, a $290 million bonus is a fair amount but not unheard of. PIMCO, which Gross founded, is the biggest bond fund in the world with $1.47 trillion in assets as of Sept. 30. It's a huge deal to build a business like that.  Gross, however, doesn't crack the list of top 10 highest paid Wall Streeters in 2013. Those guys are all hedge fund managers. To make that list he would have to make at least $600 million (along with Paul Tudor Jones, of Tudor Investments, and Ray Dalio of Bridgewater). To take the No. 1 spot, he'd have to make $3.5 billion, like David Tepper of Appaloosa Management. On the other hand, Gross' compensation makes the paycheck that Wall Street bank CEOs take home look like child's play. JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon's $11.8 million check? Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein's $19.9 million check? Peanuts. What we're talking about here is a whole different level of how people think they should get paid. Fund managers don't just get paid for the money they create; they get paid for the money they manage. As chief investment officer of PIMCO, Gross was technically overseeing the whole almost-$2 trillion pot. According to Bloomberg's report, 30% of PIMCO's profits were up for grabs in the bonus pool. Because Gross was CIO, he got 20% of that. Outside his capacity as CIO, Gross personally ran billions through the flagship Total Return Fund. However, that fund got completely spanked in the market over the past couple of years. In 2013 it got beat by 65% of its peers; in 2012 it was 90%.  The carnage was so ugly that in the past 16 months until August, investors pulled a grand total of $64 billion out of Total Return. Gross wasn't producing — a huge problem on Wall Street where you're supposed to "eat what you kill." It was so ugly that people started to wonder what happened to Bill Gross. Earlier this year he took the stage at an investment conference to Rob Thomas and Carlos Santana's "Smooth" while wearing a pair of shades. Things got weird. That said, when Gross' behavior became erratic, no one was really that surprised. He was always kind of an odd character. But on Wall Street, when you're odd and making money you're eccentric. When you're odd and losing money, you've lost your mind. You can, however, still be very well compensated. FREE AppDownload
Lululemon's new CEO has had an "uninspiring tenure" so far, and the yoga brand is suffering from an exodus of loyal customers, according to analysts at Sterne Agee. The firm has downgraded the retailer from "neutral" to "underperform," citing lasting damage from product quality issues and difficulty attracting new customers, among other issues. "Many customers have left and it's hard to get them back, especially given the focus on the women's active apparel business from brands such as Nike and Under Armour, and retailers such as Athleta, Sweaty Betty, Victoria's Secret, and others which have bitten into LULU," Sterne Agee analyst Sam Poser writes. Here's why the brand is in trouble, according to Poser. 1. Lululemon has lost customers' trust. A lot of complaints on the company's website about the quality of its products are "more indicative of the lack of trust in the Lululemon brand, not quality issues," Poser writes. "What made the company such a force to be reckoned with, up until mid 2013, in our view, was the fact that Lululemon offered one of the best, if not the best, combination of product and consumer/community engagement in all of retail," he adds.  But a string of issues that started with the company's recall last year of its Luon pants for being see-through has alienated once-loyal customers. 2. Declining store sales. Lululemon's same-store sales fell 5% in the most recent quarter. Poser said that weakness was particularly alarming because a large chunk of its store base — approximately 40% — is less than three years old.   3. Stiff competition. Until Lululemon's pants recall, the company's loyal customers were oblivious to other athletic-wear companies, Poser says. But competitors like Athleta, Nike, and Under Armour have swept in and stolen their attention with aggressive investments in their women's' business. Their efforts appear to be working, Poser writes. Nike and Under Armour each recently posted double-digit increases in their women's business. 4. Weakening customer service. Poser says the level of customer service in Lululemon's stores is declining, "which has caused a deterioration of the value proposition."  5. An expensive international expansion. Poser says Lululemon's plans to open one store in Singapore, one store in Hong Kong, and a second store in London is too aggressive. "We are surprised that LULU does not focus on one or two countries in order to have an opportunity to lever expenses in the near term, rather than open stores in far-off lands with little opportunity for leverage." www.facebook.comLululemon was widely praised as having some of the most loyal customers in retail before the sheer pants debacle that forced the company to recall about 17% of its bottoms in March 2013. The company rolled out a new design for its pants several months later with a thicker fabric, called "Full-On Luon." But some customers have continued to complain that the new pants are too sheer and that the material began pilling after only a couple of wears. Then last November, Lululemon founder Chip Wilson faced a backlash after he suggested in an interview that some women's bodies were to blame for the ongoing problems with the pants. He later posted a video apology for his remarks and begged customers to give the company a second chance. A new CEO, Laurent Potdevin, took over earlier this year, but the company's stock has failed to recover from last year's mishaps. The share price has fallen more than 30% in the past 12 months. Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
The big Wall Street news Friday, from Bloomberg View, is that former PIMCO boss Bill Gross got a $290 million bonus in 2013 before departing the firm. That's a lot of money, even for someone whose estimated net worth is $2.3 billion. Gross, who cofounded PIMCO and managed its massive Total Return bond fund before heading to Janus in September, is also known for his character and eccentric lifestyle, which some have attributed to his successes in money managing. Gross' work habits have bred many successful traders and portfolio managers — he is known to leaves notes on his employees' desks questioning their portfolio positions by the time they come in to work at 4 a.m. and to admonish his traders when they attend investment conferences, saying instead they should be speakers at these conferences. REUTERS/Lori SheplerThe HQ of the investment firm PIMCO, where Gross ran a "graveyard silent" trading floor.At PIMCO, he was also known for running a hushed office. Reuters reported that PIMCO's trading floor was "graveyard silent" because Gross encouraged his traders to use electronic communication rather than talk.  In addition, Gross met with his top executives every day in a closed-door meeting in which blinds were drawn and no cell phone use was allowed, because he wanted everyone to focus on PIMCO and the task of making their customers money. It goes without saying that Gross is a workaholic. During the height of the financial crisis, Gross was tapped by several Fed and Treasury officials for advice and was said to work 18-hour days as PIMCO was in "crisis management mode." With long hair, an informal fashion, and casual attitude, Gross isn't like many other Wall Streeters. Indeed, he often refers to himself as the antithesis of a Wall Street "alpha male," according to The New York Times. REUTERS/Jim YoungAnd unlike most Wall Street executives, Gross does not mind public appearances, frequently going on TV or speaking to the media, saying the experience relaxes him and is like taking "truth serum." Gross also isn't prone to schmoozing or traveling to network. Even when more publicity shone on him after the financial crisis as government officials began asking for his counsel, he says he never met Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner until October 2010. Gross is an avid practitioner of yoga.  Many have pointed to Gross' yoga habit as a symptom of his West Coast surroundings; he lived in Beverly Hills while working at PIMCO. But the exercise is not uncommon among many financiers — Dan Loeb of Third Point and former BofA exec Sallie Krawcheck are also yoga practitioners. Courtesy of Jade Mills Realty/AP ImagesGross picked up a mansion from Jennifer Aniston for a reported $37 million. Gross has also said he gets investment ideas from standing on his head during yoga, The New York Times reports. He's also a huge stamp collector. Gross got into stamp collecting when his mom saved up old stamps in hopes to eventually selling them off to help pay for his college tuition. When it came time to sell them, dealers told Gross that the stamps were worth less than what his mom had paid for them originally. But Gross held onto the stamps and continued collecting, saying he knew it wasn't a good investment but wanting it to be a successful hobby. He has spent as much as $3 million collecting every stamp produced by the US from 1847 to 1869. Some of his collections have sold for as much as $500,000. And Gross was once a professional blackjack player. After college, Gross hopped a train to Las Vegas with $200 sewed into his pant leg. Within four months of playing 16-hour days, he had turned that $200 into $10,000 — money that he used to pay his tuition as UCLA's business school, according to Reuters. Courtesy of First Team EstatesIn 2009, Gross spent $23 million on a Newport Beach house, tore it down, and put the land up for sale.Gross also said he used experience from gambling to further developing his ability in analyzing risk spreads and calculating odds on investments. Gross is worth $2.3 billion, putting him at No. 277 on Forbes' US rich list. In 2011, he bought Jennifer Aniston's Beverly Hills home for a reported $37 million. But that's just one of his many real estate investments. In 2011, Variety reported that Gross and his wife also owned homes in Laguna Beach, Corona del Mar, and Indian Wells, as well as a condo in Park City, Utah, and a mansion at 17 Mile Drive in Pebble Beach. He also has a penchant for Hermès ties, but he prefers to wear them draped around his neck untied, like scarves, because he wants to work with his collar open. PIMCO / YouTubeNo knot in this Hermès necktie. Former Business Insider reporter Lisa Du wrote an earlier version of this story. FREE AppDownload
On November 16, 1914, the Philadelphia Fed opened for business. As part of its 100th anniversary celebration, the Philly Fed just tweeted a picture of its 1926 basketball team, the Federals. You can read more about how the Philly Fed is commemorating its centennial here.  It isn't clear if the Federals were any good.  The Philly Fed's 1926 basketball team, the Federals. #PhiladelphiaFed100 pic.twitter.com/a7tbMpHMAC    FREE AppDownload
Until recently, it cost just $750 to ship a 20-foot container of goods from East Asia to the U.S. West coast. But that cost has been rising due a labor conflict between the 20,000 workers of the International Warehouse and Longshoreman’s Union and the Pacific Maritime Association’s 29 ports on the West Coast. A collective contract expired July 1, and workers have been engaging in a work slowdown since. The port of Tacoma, Washington, for example, is moving just 10 to 18 containers per hour, compared with a normal rate of 25 to 35, according to Credit Suisse. And the slowdown is spreading to the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, which handle 20 percent of the nation’s traffic. Retailers are less than thrilled at the prospect of shipping delays heading into Christmas. Some shipping companies are adding surcharges for delays of between 75 and 100 percent of the cost of delivery, and truckers at the Long Beach and L.A. ports are charging more as well. But somebody’s bad news can be somebody else’s good news as well: Credit Suisse says the troubles will offer a competitive advantage to importers that ship goods to East Coast ports or by air. The Financialist is a digital magazine presented by Credit Suisse that looks at the trends and ideas that drive markets, businesses and economies. FREE AppDownload

Spencer Platt /Getty The full report is currently only available to clients. But the firm highlighted some of its top forecasts in a series of tweets Friday. It sees healthy global economic growth, with GDP advancing 2.9%. "We expect average [US] real GDP growth of 3%," the firm tweeted. They characterized the US labor market recovery as "sustainable." It also foresees the first Fed interest rate hike around the middle of 2015. The Bank of England will follow suit with tighter monetary policy, but easing will continue in Europe and Japan.  "Our base case is for strong returns in global equities and modestly negative returns in fixed income," the bank tweeted. Here's the entire tweetstorm:        FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople walk past a Wal-Mart sign in Rogers, Arkansas(Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc workers plan to protest on Black Friday at about 1,600 stores in the United States to demand better wages and benefits, pressure group OUR Walmart said. The group, pushing for better wages at Wal-Mart, said workers will be on the street on Black Friday if demands for a $15 per hour wage and consistent full-time work were not met.  (Reporting by Shailaja Sharma in Bangalore; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila) FREE AppDownload
Elizabeth Warren is going head-to-head with Antonio Weiss, the official nominee for Treasury Undersecretary for Domestic Finance, POLITICO's Ben White reported. Obama nominated Weiss, who runs investment banking at Lazard, for the position. Warren spearheaded the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau after the financial crisis and served as a special advisor to the Treasury Secretary. She said she doesn't want to see another Wall Street "titan" in government. "The power of a tight group of insiders can also echo through the government in subtle ways," Warren wrote in an op-ed back in April. Yesterday, Senate Democrat leader Harry Reid created a new leadership post for Warren, a  champion of liberals, who some expect will run in the 2016 presidential elections. Those in favor of Weiss' nomination say he would be helpful in predicting market reactions to White House news. But a Warren advisor said most of Weiss' career has been overseas, advising international mergers and acquisitions, which hasn't prepared him for the domestic finance position. Warren's advisor told POLITICO: “She is a no on Antonio Weiss. She was a Treasury official herself, she cares a lot about who is in the domestic finance role. It oversees Dodd-Frank implementation and other core economic policy-making.” FREE AppDownload
In the last three years, Hertz made way less money than it originally thought. In a filing Friday morning, Hertz announced that it will restate three years worth of its earnings statements, reducing its GAAP net income by 18%, 14%, and 6% for its 2011, 2012, and 2013 fiscal years, respectively.  On a dollar basis, the company's GAAP net income will be reduced by $32 million, $35 million, and $20 million for 2011, 2012, and 2013.  So, the company made $87 million less than it previously said.  Following the news, Hertz shares were down more than 8% in early trade on Friday. Year-to-date, the stock is down about 25%.  Friday's restatement comes after the company said in August that it was withdrawing its financial guidance for 2014 and that it would conduct a review of its results for its 2011-2013 fiscal years.  In its filing on Friday, Hertz said: Although the review and investigation are ongoing, the Audit Committee, in consultation with management, has concluded that the additional proposed adjustments arising out of the review are material to the Company’s 2012 and 2013 financial statements.  Therefore, in addition to the 2011 financial statements, the 2012 and 2013 annual and quarterly financial statements must be restated and should no longer be relied upon.  The Audit Committee has discussed this matter with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm for Hertz. In addition to the 2011 financial statements, as previously disclosed, the further requirement to restate the 2012 and 2013 financial statements will further lengthen the period for completion of the applicable accounting and audit activities. Hertz does not currently expect to complete the process and file updated financial statements before mid-2015, and there can be no assurance that the process will be completed at that time, or that no additional adjustments will be identified. Hertz added that, "The most material errors identified to date relate primarily to the capitalization and timing of depreciation for certain non-fleet assets, allowances for doubtful accounts in Brazil, allowances for uncollectible amounts with respect to renter obligations for damaged vehicles, restoration obligations at the end of facility leases and certain other items.  The review and investigation of the financial records is ongoing." In a separate press released on Friday, Hertz announced a new $100 million cost reduction plan. In August, activist hedge fund manager Carl Icahn disclosed a more than 38 million share stake in the company and said in his filing with the SEC that he plans to have discussions with company management. It seems Icahn and Hertz will have a lot to talk about.  FREE AppDownload
This video is sponsored by OppenheimerFunds.    When you're investing, you're hoping to avoid unexpected obstacles and find advantages in events you can't control. From the state of the economy to the aging of our population, various macroeconomic factors will end up affecting your portfolio. How should you plan for them? As part of our investment series with OppenheimerFunds, we polled Business Insider readers to see which macro-economic factors gave them the most pause. It turns out 29% think salaries aren't keeping pace with rising costs, and 2o% are worried that people are living longer and can't rely on social security as a safety net. OppenheimerFunds Senior Economist Brian Levitt explains that salaries are, in fact, somewhat on the rise; and while no near-term changes to social security are planned, this is an opportunity for us to take personal responsibility for our futures. We have options. Watch the video above to find out what they are. BI Studios More about OppenheimerFunds.  Mutual funds are subject to market risk and volatility. Shares may gain or lose value. Carefully consider fund investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses. Visit oppenheimerfunds.com, call your advisor or 1.800.225.5677 (CALL-OPP) for a prospectus with this and other fund information. Read it carefully before investing. Oppenheimer funds are distributed by OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. is not affiliated with Business Insider. OFDI engaged Business Insider to prepare this material. © 2014 OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. All rights reserved. Find out more about Sponsor Posts. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsHere's some beef broth. Drink it up!There’s a new food trend out: it’s called “bone broth.”  Goop is into it. Quartz is into it. There’s an instagram hashtag. New York City has recently acquired a “take-out window for sippable broths.” A small coffee cup full of bone broth costs $4. Here’s the thing: all broth (save veggie broth) is made with bones. That’s how you make broth!  Broth is also called stock (that was trendy for a few years leading up to 2014). This concept is roughly 20,000 years old. Basically as soon as humans figured out a way to keep boiling water encased in something fire-resistant while cooking, someone also figured out how to put a leftover animal carcass in that boiling water. And there bone broth began. This is one of the best examples I’ve seen recently of The Quaint Economy. The Quaint Economy, as a refresher, is the idea that you can create value by creating a good story about a product. More specifically, it’s usually a story that involves cozy nostalgia for a simpler time. a time before perfect reproductions and cheap commodities. Often, a time before flushing toilets (though artisanal outhouses have not yet become a trend, thank god).   But back to the broth. Wise Choice Market, an online store, sells beef bone broth for $33.75 (you get 2 24 fl. oz. broth packets)*.  Wise Choice MarketDon't call it bone broth unless you also specify that you drink liquid beverages. Here’s the story on the website: “Following traditional methods, the beef bones are cooked gently for 48 hours with organic onions, garlic, and celtic sea salt in filtered water. Organic apple cider vinegar is added to pull the vitamins and minerals from the bones into the stock. Finally, organic parsley is added for the extra minerals to finish the just-like-homemade beef stock properly.” At Walmart, you can get 3.25 oz of beef boullion cubes (makes 25 cups of broth) for $2.  Perhaps a closer parallel is the Superior Touch Better Than Bouillon Organic Beef Base (8 oz, pack of 6) for $35 at Walmart. That’s the same number of ounces at roughly the same price as the bone broth. Except the Walmart product is concentrated, and actually makes 9.5 quarts of broth.  WalmartThis seems like a pretty good broth tbh.  It’s hard to tell here what exactly the value is in the “bone broth” rebranding. Obviously using expensive, organic ingredients is going to make the final product more expensive. But how much is the cost of production and how much is a premium charged to be part of a trend story? (h/t Ben Walsh) FREE AppDownload
AP/Tony DingConsumer confidence is roaring. The preliminary reading on consumer confidence from the University of Michigan came in at 89.4, well above expectations and the highest reading since July 2007.  Expectations were for the report to show consumer confidence coming in at 87.5, up from October's 86.9 final reading.  The latest read on consumer confidence comes on the heels of the October retail sales report, which showed sales rose 0.3% from September, beating expectations for a 0.2% rise.  This report showed the current conditions sub-index rose to 103 from 98.3 in October, though the 12-month economic outlook moderated some, pulling in to 103 from a 105 reading in October.  Future inflation expectations also declined in the report, with the 1-year outlook falling to 2.6% from 2.9% and the 5-year outlook falling to 2.6% from 2.8%.  More to come ... FREE AppDownload
AP/Tony DingConsumer confidence is roaring. The preliminary reading on consumer confidence from the University of Michigan came in at 89.4, well above expectations and the highest reading since July 2007.  Expectations were for the report to show consumer confidence coming in at 87.5, up from October's 86.9 final reading.  The latest read on consumer confidence comes on the heels of the October retail sales report, which showed sales rose 0.3% from September, beating expectations for a 0.2% rise.  This report showed the current conditions sub-index rose to 103 from 98.3 in October, though the 12-month economic outlook moderated some, pulling in to 103 from a 105 reading in October.  Future inflation expectations also declined in the report, with the 1-year outlook falling to 2.6% from 2.9% and the 5-year outlook falling to 2.6% from 2.8%.  More to come ... FREE AppDownload
 It's really easy to make sure your haircut is perfect every time. All that's required is a little bit of forethought and a few key facts to remember to tell your barber.  Good barbers will sometimes ask these questions all on their own, but if not, take a proactive approach. After all, it's your hair. So the next time your barber asks, "what are we doing today?", this is exactly what you should say: Barbers know how long it takes for hair to grow, so if you tell them how long it has been since your hair was last cut, they can imagine what your hair looked like way back when. From there, you can either tell them you want it to look the same or describe how you want it to be different from last time. And don't worry — different people's hair doesn't really grow at different rates. That's a myth, Boston-based barber Van Capizzano at Ball and Buck told Business Insider. To give you a cut you'll love, your barber needs to know more about you, according to barber Kyle Holbrook of Fellow Barber in San Francisco. Tell your barber where you work, what you do for fun, where you go on the weekends, how you wear your hair, whether you put product in it every day, and anything else you think might be helpful. Essentially, you want your barber to give you a cut that will fit seamlessly into your lifestyle and reflect your personality, Holbrook told us. This may seem simple, but most guys aren't doing it right. Some aren't even doing it all. Barbers are experts in their craft, but they aren't mind readers. You can't just expect them to fill in the gaps. Don't just say "short on the sides, long on the top." That's not enough for them to go on. Here's some terminology to use to get the haircut you want: When specifying how long you want your hair to be, inches are the best figure (1 inch, 1 1/2 inches, etc.).  It can also be helpful to know the specific number of the clippers you want your barber to use. If you don't know what setting of clippers you prefer, ask your barber to start with a longer setting and progressively get shorter until you find a style you like. Men with longer hair especially need to be clear about how much hair they want cut off. Most will tell the barber just to keep the hair off their collar. This gives a neat, professional look. Men with longer hair might also ask for a layered cut, which gives more movement and dimension to longer hairstyles. If you don't want your sides to be all the same length, ask for a tapered cut, which means your hair gets gradually longer toward the top of your head. Make sure to specify how sharp you want your hair's transition from long to short to be. For no transition, ask for a shaved part (long on top, buzzed on the sides). For a more conservative style, ask for a natural or blended transition. For more manageable hair, ask the barber to add some texture to the top. Texturing will thin out the bulk of your hair and is great for anyone with thicker hair. You can either ask for a tapered (natural) neckline or a squared (block) neckline in the back. A tapered neckline will follow your natural hairline, while a block hairline cuts straight across. Most men opt for the tapered neckline, which usually looks more natural. Tell your barber how long you want your fringe (aka bangs) to be in the front, and if you sweep it to the side or style it in any way.  The goal is to be specific enough that your barber will know exactly what you're imagining. As Capizzano puts it, "barbers are visual people." Pictures really help barbers visualize what you're looking for in a haircut and serve as a great guide.  There's a catch though — the best photo you can bring in to show your barber is a picture of yourself after a haircut that you really liked. A picture of someone else's hair doesn't take into account your hair's individual traits, like thickness, texture, and hair line.  FREE AppDownload
EIAThe International Energy Agency (IEA) is forecasting that the days of $100 a barrel crude oil may be over, at least for now.  In its Oil Market Report, released on Friday, the agency wrote: "While there has been some speculation that the high cost of unconventional oil production might set a new equilibrium for Brent prices in the $80 to $90 range, supply/demand balances suggest that the price rout has yet to run its course." The forecast chimes with a report released by the US Energy Information Agency (EIA) earlier in the week that predicted crude prices will fail to recoup sharp falls since June and are likely to stay around current levels for the whole of next year. Why has this happened? 1. Slowing Growth In Europe and China It's true that slowing growth in Europe and China has impacted the outlook for the oil price because its lowers demand. But given that the deceleration has been gradual, it's unlikely to have been the main cause of the sudden collapse we've seen in recent months and the affect will mostly play out over the medium to long-term.  2. New Oil Supply Drive By The US Shale Boom EIA Increased oil production in the US is a huge part of the story. As a recent note from Goldman Sachs explains: "although slowing demand in Europe and China has been a factor, the dominant factor – and, critically, one that our Commodity team believes will persist — is excess supply and/or expectations of excess supply". Last year, falls in OPEC production were more than offset by increases in US production and that trend now looks set to continue (see chart on the right).  Goldman SachsThat's great news for developed countries and oil importing emerging markets, as the longer lower oil prices last the larger the boost they should get to GDP. However, it's less good news for emerging market oil exporting countries that will suffer both a hit to growth and falling tax revenues. Crucially, rising US supply also means that OPEC, which controls around 40% of global oil production, is seeing its pricing power eroded. As such the oil cartel faces a stark choice between allowing prices to fall in order to remain competitive with US shale production, or attempt to cut production aggressively to regain control over prices. So far signs seem to be pointing to the former. On Wednesday Saudi Arabia's oil minister Ali Naimi hinted that the cartel was not planning an imminent production cut saying that current crude prices were "a question of supply and demand, it’s purely business". 3. Increased Oil Production In Other Parts Of The World  Oil traders have also been caught off guard by better-than-expected output in some of the world's most troubled regions. As Business Insider reported, Russia, Iraq and Libya all surprised on the upside as flareups of regional conflicts failed to disrupt to flow of the commodity. EIAIn Libya's case, output increased despite the government having to flee the capital to take residence on a cruise ship. As the IEA puts it: Higher exports from Libya and steady shipments out of southern Iraq, despite worsening conflicts in these OPEC producers, weighed on spot crude oil prices during October. Markets remained well supplied in early November, even as Libyan supplies suffered new disruptions. Of course, falling prices may be self-correcting as they constrain producers' ability to invest in increasing capacity growth. However, the IEA has a clear word of warning to anyone who expects the oil price to bounce back above $100 a barrel: Economic development no longer spurs oil demand growth as it once did, especially in the absence of wage gains. China, the top source of incremental oil demand in recent years, has entered a less oil-intensive stage of development, while years of high prices have let innovative technologies unlock untold resources in North America and likely soon elsewhere. The steeper they are, the less sustainable oil price swings tend to be. But a return to previous price highs may not be a close prospect, as it is increasingly clear that we have begun a new chapter in the history of the oil markets.  FREE AppDownload
The Russian economy is prepared for the worst-case scenario, Russian President Vladimir Putin told TASS in an interview on Friday before flying out to the G20 summit. "Yes, it's ready. We are considering all scenarios, including the so-called catastrophic decline in energy prices, which is quite possible, and we admit it," Putin said. "The Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Finance, and the government consider the development of the economy in each of these scenarios." The Russian economy heavily relies on its oil and gas industries. In fact, a $20 per barrel decline in oil prices leads to a drop of 1.75 percentage points for Russia's GDP after the first year of the shock, according to a research note from Societe Generale's Michala Marcussen. The price of Brent crude oil recently fell below $80 per barrel, down from about $115 this summer. "A country like ours," he said, has an easier time coping with "the situation." "Why? Because we are producers of oil and gas and we handle our gold and currency reserves and government reserves sparingly. Our reserves are large enough, and this allows us to be sure that we will meet our social commitments and keep all the budgetary processes and the entire economy within a certain framework," Putin said. Those without reserves would struggle in a situation like this, he added. However, Putin said it was not the right time to use these reserves to "warm up and speed up" the Russian economy. "I don't think so," Putin said. "We were ready to use them, anyway, even before all the negative events ... We talked about the possibility of using the funds from the National Welfare Fund. We didn't just say this yesterday; we talked about this two years ago." If it came to it, Putin said the reserves would be used for areas like infrastructure development. "But this doesn’t mean that we should just use these reserves thoughtlessly without waiting for an adequate economic returns. [Using the reserves] only to resolve the current issue — this we will not do." You can watch the whole interview at "Vesti" here. FREE AppDownload
The US dollar is rallying after US retail sales for October came in better than expected. The report showed retail sales grew 0.3% month-on-month, better than the 0.2% that was expected by economists.  Retail sales also rose 0.3% excluding auto sales, which also beat expectations for a 0.2% increase. Following the results, the dollar, which has been in rally mode for the last several months, is extending its gains against most major currencies, including the euro and the yen.  The dollar is currently at seven-year highs against the yen, trading at around 116.7 in morning trade on Friday, while the euro is at a roughly 18-month low of 1.24 against the dollar. Here are the charts. FinViz FinViz FREE AppDownload
The US consumer is alive. Retail sales in October rose 0.3% from the prior month, beating expectations for a 0.2% increase. Excluding autos, sales rose 0.3% in October, also better than the 0.2% that was expected by economists.  Against the prior year, retail sales rose 4.1% in October.  Sales at gasoline stations fell 1.5% in October when compared to the prior month, and fell 4% against the same month last year. Amid the decline in gas prices, many expect retail spending to strengthen as consumers have more disposable income. But in a note to clients following Friday's report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics said, "In one line: Welcome core rebound, but few signs yet that cheaper gas is boosting other spending." In a note to clients ahead of the report, Shepherdson said that the pass-through from lower gas prices to increased discretionary spending by consumers would likely not show up in Friday's report.  "A lag is normal, though, and we continue to expect a very strong holiday season," Shepherdson added. "The October gains are broad-based, with the exception of electronics, though the 1.6% drop followed a 4.7% September leap. The hit from gas prices was small, only 0.15% at the headline level; expect a bigger impact in November." In an email to Business Insider following the report, Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Services, said Holiday sales should be up 4%-4.5% from last year, the best year-on-year increase since the financial crisis.  Hoffman also expects online sales to rise 12%-14% during the Holiday season, better than the 10% increase last year.  And so after a disappointing September report, a bit of a rebound in October shows that ahead of the Holiday shopping season, the US consumer is showing some signs of life.  FREE AppDownload
The US consumer is alive. Retail sales in October rose 0.3% from the prior month, beating expectations for a 0.2% increase. Excluding autos, sales rose 0.3% in October, also better than the 0.2% that was expected by economists.  Against the prior year, retail sales rose 4.1% in October.  Sales at gasoline stations fell 1.5% in October when compared to the prior month, and fell 4% against the same month last year. Amid the decline in gas prices, many expect retail spending to strengthen as consumers have more disposable income. But in a note to clients following Friday's report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics said, "In one line: Welcome core rebound, but few signs yet that cheaper gas is boosting other spending." In a note to clients ahead of the report, Shepherdson said that the pass-through from lower gas prices to increased discretionary spending by consumers would likely not show up in Friday's report.  "A lag is normal, though, and we continue to expect a very strong holiday season," Shepherdson added. "The October gains are broad-based, with the exception of electronics, though the 1.6% drop followed a 4.7% September leap. The hit from gas prices was small, only 0.15% at the headline level; expect a bigger impact in November." In an email to Business Insider following the report, Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Services, said Holiday sales should be up 4%-4.5% from last year, the best year-on-year increase since the financial crisis.  Hoffman also expects online sales to rise 12%-14% during the Holiday season, better than the 10% increase last year.  And so after a disappointing September report, a bit of a rebound in October shows that ahead of the Holiday shopping season, the US consumer is showing some signs of life.  FREE AppDownload
Christian Fox, an instructor at CrossFit South Brooklyn, explains the techniques involved in this strength and conditioning workout that has crossed over into the mainstream. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis
Thomson ReutersMark Wetjen, acting chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, testifies to the House Financial Services Committee about the effects of the Volcker RuleBy Huw Jones LONDON (Reuters) - New rules aimed at making derivatives markets safer and more transparent need tweaking to stop the $690 trillion global market splitting up, a top American regulator said on Friday. Several shallower pools of trading are emerging in what had been one deep, efficient market as brokers outside the United States seek to avoid having to comply with sometimes conflicting U.S. and home country rules. Mark Wetjen, one of the four commissioners at the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), said there was some agreement at the watchdog for changes. It was, however, unclear if fragmentation was due to possible errors in U.S. rules, or to the rules being introduced ahead of their European equivalent, he told reporters in London. "Fortunately, the market fragmentation occurring around the globe largely has been a creature of the law. It is therefore within the power of lawmakers to minimize the negative consequences associated with it," Wetjen said. One CFTC rule requires a platform anywhere in the world to be registered in the United States even if there is only one U.S participant and Wetjen was "not sure we have got that right". Also the MATT rule, whereby operators of U.S. trading platforms decide if a swap must be traded electronically rather than privately between banks, also needed changing because of the conflict of interest it presents, Wetjen said. It is "probably going to be a lot more sensible" to allow regulators to decide if a swap should be traded on a platform, bringing the rule more in line with the European Union's approach, he said. The CFTC should also bring an end to the so-called "name give up", a practice whereby the identities of buyers and sellers are disclosed after a trade has been closed, Wetjen said. This has made hedge funds and investment funds wary of participating in the market. Mark Carney, head of the Group of 20 (G20) economies' Financial Stability Board, said on Friday that implementation of derivatives rules globally was uneven, and called for deeper trust among supervisors to apply common standards fully and consistently. Wetjen said further coordinated regulation by the G20 would minimise market fragmentation even more.  (Additional reporting by Douwe Miedema in Washington,  Editing by Carolyn Cohn and Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Daniel Dal Zennaro/PooGood morning! Here are the big news stories moving markets.  Europe Is Sluggish. Eurozone GDP climbed by just 0.2% in Q3. While this is incredibly low, it is a bit better than the 0.1% growth rate expected by economists. "Growth in the euro area is still very low, but a slight beat of the consensus and an upward revision to last quarter’s data indicate that the economy is further from recession than a gloomy consensus was expecting," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen said. European Inflation Could've Been Worse. Prices climbed by just 0.4% year-over-year in October, which was a bit higher than the 0.3% forecast by economists. "The drag from deflation in the energy component and low food prices were slightly lower in October which contributed to the higher inflation reading," Pantheon's Vistesen said. "This is positive, but signs of deflation in the core industrial goods component is worrying." Speaking Of Energy Prices ... Oil prices tumbled to multiyear lows earlier Friday before coming back. "I think the market is basically coming to the conclusion today that this latest price drop has actually increased the likelihood of action from OPEC," Saxo Bank's Ole Sloth Hansen told Bloomberg. Stock Markets Aren't Doing Much. US futures are up a hair, with Dow futures up 7 points and S&amp;P futures up 0.5 points. Europe is in the red, with Britain's FTSE down 0.2%, France's CAC 40 down 0.2%, and Germany's DAX down 0.4%. Asia closed in the green, with Japan's Nikkei up 0.5% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng up 0.3%. France And Greece Are Looking Up. French GDP came in slightly better than expected. Europe's second-biggest economy registered a 0.3% expansion in the third quarter, a slightly higher figure than economists expected. Greece is finally out of recession after six horrible years. The economy expanded by 1.7% in Q3 compared with the same quarter last year. Germany And Italy Are In Trouble. Germany has avoided recession by a hair. The German economy grew by 0.1% in the third quarter. That's as weak as growth gets. Italy remains in recession. Italian GDP dropped 0.1% in Q3. That's following a 0.2% drop in Q2 and another 0.1% decline in Q1, capping nine months of recession for Europe's third-largest economy. An Energy Industry Mega-Deal Is In The Pipeline. "Halliburton Co. is in talks to buy Baker Hughes Inc., according to people familiar with the matter," reports The Wall Street Journal's Dana Mattioli, Liz Hoffman and Dana Cimilluca. "Talks between the two oil-field-services companies are moving quickly, and they could reach an agreement soon, said two of the people." RBS Is Exiting The US Mortgage Business. Royal Bank of Scotland Plc's securities unit will now exit its US mortgage trading business after originally planning to shrink it by two-thirds. US Retail Sales Are Coming. That's the biggest data release from the US on Friday, at 8:30 a.m. ET. Analysts are expecting a 0.2% boost for October after an unexpected 0.3% fall in September. Pimco Bosses Made A Lot Of Money Last Year. Here's Barry Ritholtz for BloombergView: "According to documents provided to Bloomberg View by someone with knowledge of Pimco's bonus policies, the numbers break down like this: [Bill] Gross earned $290 million as his year-end bonus for 2013. Mohamed El-Erian, Pimco's former chief executive officer and one-time heir apparent to Gross, received $230 million." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungBill Gross.The bosses at PIMCO got paid last year. Here's Barry Ritholtz for Bloomberg: "According to documents provided to Bloomberg View by someone with knowledge of Pimco's bonus policies, the numbers break down like this: Gross earned $290 million as his year-end bonus for 2013. Mohamed El-Erian, Pimco's former chief executive officer and one-time heir apparent to Gross, received $230 million (El-Erian is a fellow Bloomberg View contributor)." It should go without saying those are just astronomical numbers. It's also worth noting that nine-figure pay isn't unusual for these folks. The New York Times previously reported that El-Erian took home $100 million in 2011. What's odd about this is that PIMCO's flagship Total Return Fund, which was managed by Gross, was an underperformer during this period. "While PIMCO does not comment on compensation, the figures provided to Bloomberg are not correct. For more than three decades, PIMCO's managing directors have maintained a substantial interest in the firm, currently 30% of profits, and this provides an important means to attract and retain the best investment talent to serve our clients," a PIMCO spokesperson said. PIMCO is a fund behemoth with a whopping $1.47 trillion in assets under management as of Sept. 30. The firm attracted a lot of unwanted attention when then-CEO El-Erian shocked the world with his surprise resignation. That was quickly followed by a series of stories from The Wall Street Journal and Reuters about the unorthodox management style of founder and then-co-CIO Gross. Morningstar, Business InsiderMeanwhile, the Total Return Fund booked 16 straight months of outflows through August for a cumulative total amount of about $68 billion. And after about nine months of drama, Gross rocked the finance industry with his own resignation announcement in September. In September, the Total Return Fund experienced a breathtaking $23.5 billion in net outflows. "Of note, the largest daily outflow occurred on the day of Bill Gross’s resignation from the firm, while outflows on the two following days were considerably smaller," PIMCO said in an Oct. 1 press release. Gross is now manager of Janus' tiny Unconstrained Bond Fund. According to Bloomberg's Mary Childs, the fund's assets under management more than quintupled to $442.9 million. According to Ritholtz's report, PIMCO's Daniel Ivascyn "took home a $70 million bonus." Reuters/ Steve Marcus Daniel Ivascyn.Shortly after Gross' resignation, PIMCO announced Ivascyn would take the helm as group CIO. Ivascyn, sometimes referred to as "beast" by his colleagues, has been the manager of PIMCO's Income Fund, a fund that experienced inflows while Gross's Total Return fund experienced outflows. "Investors have shown confidence in PIMCO as evidenced by significant inflows into strategies such as the PIMCO Income Fund, which has seen over $6.5bn of net inflows year to date in 2014," PIMCO said in an Oct. 1 statement. The charts below come from a recent report from Morningstar. As you can see, while the Total Return Fund has lost about 30% of assets under Gross' purview, the Income Fund has blown up by about 30% under Ivascyn's purview. Morningstar It is trends like this that have PIMCO employees confident that the firm's outlook is bright in the post-Bill Gross era. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsHOUSTON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - Oilfield services provider Baker Hughes Inc said on Thursday it is in preliminary merger talks with its larger rival Halliburton Co, though any potential deal would likely face antitrust concerns. Two people familiar with the matter, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Halliburton was looking to buy Baker Hughes, in what would be the second-largest energy deal of this year. Oil prices have slid by a third since June, eroding demand for drilling services and pummeling stock prices across the energy sector. That has prompted a flurry of chatter among executives and bankers about acquisition opportunities. A tie up between the No. 2 and No. 3 players in the services industry might allow them to better weather the downturn and resist pressure from oil producers to slash prices. Baker Hughes said in a statement it has "engaged in preliminary discussions with Halliburton Company regarding a potential business combination transaction." Halliburton declined to comment on the talks, which were first reported by Dow Jones and in The Wall Street Journal. A potential merger would create a drilling, logistics and well services giant worth $67 billion, initially with 140,000 employees. But the merged entity would be only half the size of industry leader Schlumberger, which has a market capitalization of $125 billion. If a deal were struck, the companies could well have to sell assets to convince regulators they would not hurt competition, said Seth Bloom, a veteran of the U.S. Department of Justice's antitrust division now in private practice. "The question with mergers like this is are there divestitures of submarkets that can solve the problem," Bloom said. "It's clearly not a slam dunk to approval but it's not automatic that you can't get it through. You have to drill down to see what the markets are like." The deal is also likely to draw the scrutiny of regulators in Europe, China, Brazil and Mexico, others experts said. Arguably, the antitrust concerns would be greatest outside the United States, where there are relatively few services companies. There are at least seven major product lines where there is overlap between the two companies. The companies offer scores of services and technology, from drill bits, to cementing and casing work, to artificial lift systems that improve output from wells. An analyst who follows the company and did not want to be quoted said Halliburton could get the deal down with a mix of debt and equity and still maintain its investment rating. News of the talks sent shares of another services company, Weatherford International Plc, which has long been seen as vulnerable, up nearly 6 percent. Baker Hughes shares were halted in New York Stock Exchange trading due to volatility. They later reopened and shot up 18 percent. Halliburton shares rose as much as 3.5 percent before trimming gains at the close. The last major deal in the energy industry, announced in August and worth some $70 billion, was pipeline giant Kinder Morgan Inc's move to fold its various units into a single entity.   (Additional reporting by Mike Stone, Anna Driver, Diane Bartz; and Bangalore newsroom; Editing by Grant McCool) FREE AppDownload
After falling into recession as the 2008 financial crisis hit, Greece's economy has finally registered some growth. The economy expanded by 1.7% in Q3, compared to the same quarter last year. It's been a long, long haul, and after six years, one of the country's longest recessions in economic history. Eurostat just released figures showing the recession actually ended in the first quarter of this year (Greece does not usually publish quarterly GDP numbers), but the data is all new. It's no real cause for celebration: unemployment is still running at an eye-watering 26.6%, the economy is more than a quarter smaller than it was when the recession began, and there are no significant prospects for rapid growth on the horizon. In all likelihood, returning to pre-crisis GDP levels will take decades.  But for the history of the euro crisis, which was so focused on the possibility that Greece would have to exit the currency union, this is a big milestone.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFormer CEO of Arcandor Middelhoff reacts as he listens to his verdict at the regional court in EssenESSEN Germany (Reuters) - Thomas Middelhoff, the former chief executive of defunct German retail group Arcandor, was sentenced by a German court on Friday to three years in prison for breach of fiduciary trust and tax evasion. Middelhoff, who ran German media group Bertelsmann before joining the retailer in 2004, had faced criminal charges for having Arcandor foot the bill for private flights and other personal expenses. Arcandor, the department store and mail order company which until 2007 carried the name KarstadtQuelle, went bust in June 2009, only months after Middelhoff was replaced as chief executive. Prosecutors had sought a jail sentence of three years and three months while Middelhoff's lawyers had urged the court in the western city of Essen to impose no jail time at all.  (Reporting by Matthias Inverardi; Writing by Ludwig Burger; Editing by Noah Barkin) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrew WinningEurozone growth came in higher than expected, at 0.2% for Q3, and inflation came in at 0.4%, bang on what was expected by analysts. It's pretty close to a no-growth environment for both GDP and inflation. The figures are all incredibly low.   Here's how each of the three largest eurozone economies is doing: German GDP rose 0.1%, narrowly avoiding a technical recession. French GDP beat expectations, rising 0.3%, the fastest of the three (which says a lot).  Italian GDP dropped another 0.1%, keeping the country in recession. According to the Guardian's Graeme Wearden, Italy has now had stagnant or falling GDP for 13 quarters. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stefano RellandinItalian GDP dropped another 0.1% in the third quarter, as expected. That's following a 0.2% drop in Q2 and another 0.1% decline in Q1, capping nine months of recession for Europe's third-largest economy.  We've already had French data Friday morning, with a 0.3% boost in the third quarter. That's slightly stronger than economists expected, but still fairly poor by any other standard.  And from Germany, the once-reliable engine of the European economy, things were even worse. Europe's largest economy reported a 0.1% increase in GDP, narrowly avoiding a technical recession. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders gather at the Goldman Sachs post on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeLONDON (Reuters) - Banks' financial trading revenues rose in the third quarter thanks to an increase in market volatility, but the rise was not enough to offset the fall seen in the first half of the year, according to a new survey on Friday. Trading revenue for the top 10 global investment banks totaled $36.5 billion in the three months to September, a rise of 11 percent on the same period a year ago, according to industry analytics firm Coalition. This was largely driven by a 16 percent rise in fixed income, currencies and commodities (FICC), which benefited from greater volatility caused by uncertainty over U.S. and European monetary policies and geo-political instability. Coalition does not break out third-quarter revenues by segment, but said rates and foreign exchange picked up in the three months to end-September. That marks a change from previous months, when the low interest rate environment together with the effect of tougher regulations forcing banks to hold more capital squeezed returns. The first half weakness was reflected in year-to-date FICC revenues, which were 7 percent behind last year, Coalition said. In equities, revenue was $9.9 billion, 3 percent up on last year. Growth came from prime services, as hedge funds, sitting on record assets under management, boosted activity. Investment banking divisions (IBDs), which underwrite and arrange share issues and other deals, saw revenue climb 12 percent to $9.4 billion in the third quarter. Coalition said the availability of cheap financing had given companies the confidence to pursue deals, while favorable investor sentiment supported stock market listings. IBD was the only area expected to deliver annual growth. Coalition forecast an 11 percent rise in full-year revenue at IBDs, while FICC and equities were seen down 4 percent and 5 percent, respectively. Total annual trading revenue will be little changed from the year before at $152.7 billion. The data showed that banks' restructuring continued into the third quarter, with headcount down 4 percent year-on-year. All divisions saw cuts, Coalition said. Coalition tracks the performance of Bank of America Merrill Lynch , Barclays , BNP Paribas , Citi , Credit Suisse , Deutsche Bank , Goldman Sachs , JPMorgan , Morgan Stanley  and UBS .   (Reporting by Clare Hutchison and Jamie McGeever; editing by Keiron Henderson) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBritain's Chancellor of the Exchequer Osborne attends an EU ministers meeting in BrusselsLONDON (Reuters) - Britain's finance ministry will hand the country's anti-fraud agency all the funds it needs to conduct a criminal investigation into alleged rigging of the $5.3 trillion-a-day currency market, a Treasury source said. Finance minister George Osborne has written to the Serious Fraud Office to make clear that it will be given the funds it needs for the investigation. "I understand that the SFO is in the early stages of a major investigation into forex trading. Given the importance of this work, the Treasury will provide the required funding for this investigation," the source said the letter states.  (Reporting by Matt Scuffham; Editing by Keith Weir) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBranded packaging is seen in Starbucks' Vigo Street branch in Mayfair, central LondonBRUSSELS (Reuters) - Starbucks Corp's  tax deal with Dutch authorities may be illegal state aid as it allows the world's biggest coffee chain to pay tax on a lower corporate income tax base, European Union antitrust regulators said on Friday. The comments by the European Commission came five months after it opened an in-depth investigation into the case involving the company's Starbucks Manufacturing EMEA BV. "The Commission’s preliminary view is that the Advanced Pricing Arrangements in favor of Starbucks Manufacturing EMEA BV constitutes State aid... The Commission has doubts about the compatibility of such aid with the internal market," the EU executive said. The probe is one of four into so-called sweetheart deals which the Commission said may give the companies an unfair advantage. The other three firms are online retailer Amazon , Italian carmaker Fiat  and iPhone maker Apple . In addition to the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Ireland, Malta, Belgium, Cyprus and Gibraltar are also in the regulatory sight over tax deals which substantially lower some firms' tax bills. Regulators said this favorable treatment could breach EU state aid rules.  (Reporting by Foo Yun Chee) FREE AppDownload
FoodbeastTOKYO (Reuters) - Asian stocks dipped in early trade on Friday following fresh signs of slowing Chinese growth, while crude oil hovered near a four-year low in an oversupplied market. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan slipped 0.25 percent. The index has been confined to a narrow range this week as the U.S. economy outperforms the euro zone and China. China's economy lost further momentum in October, with factory growth dipping and investment growth hitting a near 13-year low. "As the Federal Reserve policy shifts towards monetary tightening, the kind of risk aversion stemming from emerging markets we saw at the start of the year may take place again," said Junichi Ishikawa, a market analyst at IG Securities in Tokyo. "The European Central Bank will play a key role in preventing such risk aversion. We may see instability continue in emerging markets until they are convinced that easing from the ECB and Bank of Japan can provide global support." Tokyo shares outperformed their Asian peers, continuing to draw support from expectations that Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will call an election in December and possibly delay a sales tax hike. The Nikkei was up 0.1 percent, after hitting a fresh seven-year high. The dollar hit a seven-year high of 116.20 yen on swirling Japanese election speculation. U.S. retail sales numbers due later in the day are awaited for further impetus. The focus is on how the U.S. Treasury market would react to the data after slightly softer than expected U.S. jobless claims numbers nudged bond yields lower on Thursday and momentarily capped the greenback. The euro fetched $1.2465, continuing to inch away from a two-year low of $1.2358 struck last Friday. U.S. crude oil was up 13 cents at $74.34 a barrel, although the bounce paled in comparison to the 3.9 percent drop the commodity suffered on Thursday, when it fell to a four-year low of $74.07. Oil has been hit this week by factors including a stockpile surge at a delivery point for U.S. crude and reluctance by Saudi Arabia to cut output when the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries meets on Nov. 27. [O/R] Crude prices have slumped more than 30 percent since June.     (Editing by Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michaela RehleThe German economy grew by 0.1% in the third quarter. That's as weak as growth gets. The first report for the previous quarter showed a 0.2% drop in output from Q1. Another quarter of contraction would have meant that Germany was officially in a recession. The fact that the country is hovering just barely in growth territory is pretty terrible news for the European economy. Since 2008, Germany has been the continent's star peformer, showcasing a mild crash, low employment,  and decent growth. That period might now be over. We saw French GDP for Q3 already Friday morning: it came in at just 0.3%, a little higher than analysts expected but still pretty weak.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric Feferberg/PooFrench GDP numbers just out show GDP rose 0.3% in the third quarter of the year. That's more than the 0.2% predicted by analysts. French business surveys have been dismal, but it looks like the economy is seeing extremely weak growth rather than recession. But it's not all (very modest) good news: French output was revised down for the second quarter, from flat to -0.1%.  We've also had German GDP Friday morning, which came in at just 0.1%, very narrowly avoiding recession. FREE AppDownload
