ATHENS (Reuters) - Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras faces a vote in parliament on Monday that will decide whether the country goes to snap elections that could bring the leftwing Syriza party to power and derail an international bailout. In the most hotly contested vote for president since Greece joined the euro more than a decade ago, the result in the final round of voting is likely to be decided by a small handful of deputies. If lawmakers fail to elect a successor to 85-year-old Karolos Papoulias, a snap election will be held within weeks. Syriza, leading in the opinion polls, vowed again to renegotiate the joint European Union-IMF bailout bailout Greece needs to pay its bills and roll over its debt. Syriza leader Alexis Tsipras said he had growing support in other countries struggling in the crisis. "In Europe, sentiment is changing. Everyone is getting used to the idea that Syriza will be the government and that new negotiations will begin," he wrote in his party newspaper on Sunday. With financial markets watching closely, former European Commissioner Stavros Dimas, the only candidate in the race, will need 180 votes to be elected. In the previous round of voting, he secured 168 votes, 12 short of the supermajority required. Greek bond yields spiked sharply earlier this month after Samaras first announced that he was bringing forward the vote for president by two months in a bid to shore up support for his conservative/center-left coalition. Voting is due to start at midday (0600 ET), with the result likely around an hour later. Spyros Lykoudis, an independent who voted with the government in the second round before Christmas, said he was not optimistic that the parties would overcome their differences. "Unless there is a surprise, unless a party changes its stance, I don't expect parliament to elect a president tomorrow given the current circumstances," he told Reuters. "Nothing can be ruled out, but parties are in any case preparing for elections." Samaras, who spent much of Sunday following the dramatic rescue of hundreds of passengers from a burning ferry, has appealed to parliament to support his nominee. But having offered a deal to bring forward elections scheduled for mid 2016 to the end of next year, he ruled out new concessions to the opposition parties and independents expected to hold the key to the result. Recent polls have shown Syriza has kept its lead over the ruling centre-right New Democracy party but the advantage has narrowed steadily over the past few weeks and Samaras said on Saturday he was confident of winning any election. A poll on Saturday by the Alco institute showed Syriza leading New Democracy by 3.3 points, a slightly narrower lead than in the previous poll. It put support for Syriza at 28.3 percent and for New Democracy at 25 percent. However, the outlook is complicated by the weakness of other parties. Samaras' coalition partner PASOK faces severe internal tensions and may split and fail to enter parliament, thus hindering the formation of a stable coalition majority.   (Writing by James Mackenzie; Editing by Michael Urquhart) FREE AppDownload
The October 2008 issue of SuperYacht World confirmed it: money cannot buy happiness. Page 38 of “the international magazine for superyachts of distinction” — if you have to ask what it takes for a yacht to qualify as “super,” you can’t afford to be in the showroom — presented the Martha Ann, a 230-foot, $125 million boat boasting a crew of 20, a master bedroom the size of my house, and an interior gaudy enough to make Saddam Hussein blush. The feature story on the Martha Ann was published just as the S&amp;P 500 suffered its worst week since 1933, shedding $1.4 trillion over the course of the week, or about 2,240 Martha Anns every day. Still, one of the captions accompanying the lavish photos betrayed the status anxiety that afflicts even the highest echelons of wealth. “From these LOFTY HEIGHTS,” the caption promised, “guests will be able to look down on virtually any other yacht.” Virtually any other yacht! One imagines the prospective owner wincing at this disclaimer, pained by the knowledge that the world would still contain superyachts more super than his own, that at least one gazillionaire in Saint-Tropez harbor would likely be able to peer over his gunwales and down at the Martha Ann. The lesson that Mammon is a false or inadequate god goes back a long way, and a glossy spread in SuperYacht World is just one place to relearn it. Another is Boston College’s Center on Wealth and Philanthropy, which since 1970 has minted a diverse array of studies of the wealthy. For four years, the Gates Foundation has supported an effort by the center to determine exactly how the American wealthy think and live — and in particular how, when, and to what degree they make the shift from accumulating fortunes to giving them away philanthropically. (The John Templeton Foundation, which is concerned with spiritual matters, kicked in additional funding to study correlations between wealth, philanthropy, and religion.) The project has produced one of the most remarkable documents in the center’s history: a survey that invited the very rich to write freely about how prosperity has shaped their lives and those of their children. From the anonymity of their home computers, the respondents wrote anything from a few words to a few pages, volunteering not only their net worth and sources of wealth but also their innermost hopes, fears, and anxieties. The responses, which run to 500 pages and fill three plastic binders on the fifth floor of Boston College’s McGuinn Hall, constitute what the center’s director, the sociologist Paul G. Schervish, calls “an extraordinary sample of confession, memoir, and apologia” from the super-rich. (The researchers admit that this sample is not representative, being inevitably skewed toward those wealthy people who are willing to offer their confessions to a computer screen.) Roughly 165 households responded, 120 of which have at least $25 million in assets. The respondents’ average net worth is $78 million, and two report being billionaires. The goal, say the survey’s architects, was to weed out all but those at or approaching complete financial security. Most of the survey’s respondents are wealthy enough to ensure that in any catastrophe short of Armageddon, they will still be dining on Chateaubriand while the rest of us are spit-roasting rats over trash-can fires. The results of the study are not yet public, but The Atlantic was granted access to portions of the research, provided the anonymity of the subjects was strictly maintained. The center expects to present the full conclusions gradually at upcoming conferences and to publish them over the next several months. The study is titled “The Joys and Dilemmas of Wealth,” but given that the joys tend to be self-evident, it focuses primarily on the dilemmas. The respondents turn out to be a generally dissatisfied lot, whose money has contributed to deep anxieties involving love, work, and family. Indeed, they are frequently dissatisfied even with their sizable fortunes. Most of them still do not consider themselves financially secure; for that, they say, they would require on average one-quarter more wealth than they currently possess. (Remember: this is a population with assets in the tens of millions of dollars and above.) One respondent, the heir to an enormous fortune, says that what matters most to him is his Christianity, and that his greatest aspiration is “to love the Lord, my family, and my friends.” He also reports that he wouldn’t feel financially secure until he had $1 billion in the bank. Such complaints sound, on their face, preposterous. But just as the human body didn’t evolve to deal well with today’s easy access to abundant fat and sugars, and will crave an extra cheeseburger when it shouldn’t, the human mind, apparently, didn’t evolve to deal with excess money, and will desire more long after wealth has become a burden rather than a comfort. A vast body of psychological evidence shows that the pleasures of consumption wear off through time and depend heavily on one’s frame of reference. Most of us, for instance, occasionally spoil ourselves with outbursts of deliberate and perhaps excessive consumption: a fancy spa treatment, dinner at an expensive restaurant, a shopping spree. In the case of the very wealthy, such forms of consumption can become so commonplace as to lose all psychological benefit: constant luxury is, in a sense, no luxury at all. TwitterTaken together, the survey responses make a compelling case that being fantastically wealthy — especially when the wealth is inherited rather than earned — is not a great deal more fulfilling than being merely prosperous. Among other woes, the survey respondents report feeling that they have lost the right to complain about anything, for fear of sounding — or being — ungrateful. Those with children worry that their children will become trust-fund brats if their inheritances are too large — or will be forever resentful if those inheritances (or parts of them) are instead bequeathed to charity. The respondents also confide that they feel their outside relationships have been altered by, and have in some cases become contingent on, their wealth. “Very few people know the level of my wealth, and if they did, in most cases I believe it would change our relationship,” writes one respondent. Another notes, “I start to wonder how many people we know would cut us off if they didn’t think they could get something from us.” Robert A. Kenny, who has trained as a psychologist and is one of the survey’s architects, says that extreme wealth can take away some of the basic joys of living — for instance, that some wealthy people don’t look forward to the holidays, “because they were always expected to give really good presents.” When you’re a millionaire, Kenny says, expensive gifts merely meet expectations. That was a pretty good present, the recipients might respond. But last year, you gave me a car. Other people “glorify wealth and think that it means that the wealthy are smarter, wiser, more ‘blessed’ or some other such crock,” explains one survey respondent. “I feel extremely lucky, but it’s hard to get other, non-wealthy people to believe it’s not more significant than that … The novelty of money has worn off.” Schervish, the center's sociologist and director, is 64, with three grown children and a book-filled office overlooking the Boston College campus. He’s from Detroit, but his voice bears a slight resemblance to those of Boston’s own “Click and Clack,” the wisecracking auto mechanics on National Public Radio’s Car Talk. Indeed, with his moustache and (most days) faded sweatshirt, he looks more like an auto mechanic than like someone who spends all day analyzing the psychic consequences of unimaginable sums of money. He often wears two pairs of glasses, one on top of the other, to help magnify the text on his computer. Given his past, Schervish would seem an unlikely candidate to study the wealthy. As a young man, he trained for the Jesuit priesthood and beginning in 1966 was bound by a vow of poverty. He was ordained in 1975 and earned his doctorate in sociology from the University of Wisconsin while serving in the campus Catholic center. But in 1981, as a professor at Boston College, he found the demands of priesthood, such as celibacy, too strenuous and left the order, finally and definitively trading the pursuit of heavenly treasures for the study of earthly ones. His work on the wealthy remains strongly informed by Christian (as well as Sufi and Buddhist) traditions, however, and is salted with untranslated Latin and Greek, and citations from French mystics as well as from federal reports on wealth. ShutterstockEarly in his academic career, Schervish was a committed Democratic Socialist. But around 1990, he began interviewing wealthy people and decided that his Marxist instinct to criticize the rich was misguided. “I realized good and evil are equally distributed across the economic spectrum and not particular to the wealthy or the poor,” he says. “A lot of wealth holders were very sincerely concerned about others and were doing something about it.” His recent papers, many co-authored with John Havens, the associate director and senior research associate at the center, have done much to exonerate the rich from the charge that they are more tightfisted than the non-rich. (They’re not, Schervish and Havens say: as individuals move up the wealth scale, they give away a greater share of their assets.) Although Schervish may defend the wealthy, he clearly refuses to hold them in awe. He likes to quote Deuteronomy: “Behold, I set before you this day a blessing and a curse.” As he explains, “Money is like fire: it will warm your feet or it will burn your socks off.” In the complaints voiced by the survey’s wealthy respondents, he believes he hears echoes of religious figures such as the Buddha, who gave up the life of a playboy prince to achieve enlightenment; and of Saint Ignatius himself, the 16th-century Basque nobleman who repudiated his wealth and founded Schervish’s own Jesuit order. “Some of the respondents don’t yet know the depth of the yearning in their words,” Schervish says. “I hear Buddha and Ignatius very much saying that you have to discern your path and get rid of the things that are encumbrances. That’s what these people are trying to find out: Do I have what I want? Am I screwing my kids up? They have the quantity, now they have to figure out the quality of their wants. They don’t all say that — some are stuck way before that. But this is what’s going on, whether they realize it or not. “I never forgot the concerns that I learned as a Jesuit. But I got rid of the absolute certainties that I had about how to achieve them,” Schervish says, adding, “Trump not, lest you be trumped.” The rich, he points out, could easily ask him why he is teaching sociology instead of donning sackcloth, selling his possessions, and giving everything to the poor. “I found that there is no telling people what needs need attending to, because needs are infinite. And they’d be better off channeling their work through inspiration, rather than dictation by others.” IN EARLY 2009, roughly 115,000 American households were warming or singeing their toes on fortunes of $25 million or more — a population that had increased more than threefold since 1989, according to the center’s Havens. The broadest distinction among this group is between those who primarily inherited their money and those who primarily earned it. Jemal Countess / Getty ImagesThe former are members of what Warren Buffett famously dubbed “the lucky sperm club.” These inheritors sometimes display the stereotypical arrogance of privilege — the fast cars and wanton lifestyles — but the more introspective among them contend with worries that they’ll lack the motivation to accomplish anything in life or to escape the shadows of their parents. This self-doubt is magnified by the knowledge that they’re unlikely to find sympathy from anyone other than their fellow inheritors. Respondents who earned their wealth worry less about their self-worth. But unlike the inheritors, they have to contend with a major life transition, from the workaday world to a world where work is voluntary. Some friends disappear, and others — perhaps attracted by the newfound wealth — appear. There’s even a subcategory of almost accidental earners, who signed on with the right company at the right time and received stock-option windfalls (“sudden-wealth syndrome,” as it’s sometimes called). Such wealth can feel almost like an inheritance, except that in these cases it’s less a matter of lucky sperm than of a lucky job choice. Regardless of the sources of their wealth, one thing the rich have in common is a severe allergy to discussing their dilemmas in public. “You’d be amazed how many people aren’t calling me this week,” Kenny said to me when I visited his office. He had told some of his survey respondents that he would be talking to a reporter, and he was convinced they had arranged their schedules to avoid any possible contact with me. The respondents had answered Kenny’s calls for cooperation in the first place partly because he counsels the rich professionally through North Bridge Advisory Group, a Boston consultancy that works with individuals and families on complex money and inheritance issues. Like Schervish, Kenny — who at 58 has graying hair and the tranquility of someone who spends his time talking to people who have more troubles than he does — took a roundabout path to studying the wealthy. For two decades, he counseled adults who were working with high-risk kids, many of them poor, in New York City, a job he remembers fondly and says he has considered resuming. In 2001, a call from a colleague brought him to an organization called More Than Money, which a group of inheritors had convened to help them deal with psychological issues related to wealth. He found that the rich — especially the inheritors of vast fortunes — have unique sets of worries, and face the added difficulty of knowing that many despise or envy them. “Often the word rich becomes a pejorative,” Kenny says. “It rhymes with bitch. I’ve been in rooms and seen people stand up and say, ‘I’m Bob Kenny, and I’m rich.’ And then they burst into tears.” He isn’t the first to identify the rich as a psychologically vulnerable group — the psychiatrist Robert Coles devoted the fifth volume of his Pulitzer-winning Children of Crisis series to “the well-off and the rich in America” — but Kenny has become an important confidant and adviser to people of means, someone who can sympathize with their particular concerns. “They’re having a bad day, and they can say to me, ‘I’m having a really bad day,’ and I’m not going to say, ‘Well, why don’t you give me the money?’” he explains. “They don’t have a lot of that in the world.” “Sometimes I think that the only people in this country who worry more about money than the poor are the very wealthy,” Kenny says. “They worry about losing it, they worry about how it’s invested, they worry about the effect it’s going to have. And as the zeroes increase, the dilemmas get bigger.” Typically, he says, an inheritor’s angst arrives in early adolescence, and it blossoms when she arrives at college and, in a group of peers unaware of her wealth, discovers what it’s like to be treated as a “normal” person. She may keep her wealth hidden for a while, until at some point she’s outed and her friends suddenly look at her differently. In some cases, an inheritor isn’t even fully aware of how wealthy she is. “She might be 21,” Kenny says, “and one day her trust officer sits her down and says, ‘Here’s how it’s going to work. You’re going to get this many millions today, and this many millions when you turn 30.’ Then she’ll have to go back to college, and she’ll have to face her friends and her life as a wealthy person.” Often, Kenny says, she’ll then spend some time — in the worst cases, the rest of her natural life — “drifting,” without a career or purpose. As one respondent to the survey confesses, “I wish I had taken better control of my education … I had money in college, and I was never worried about learning for my future.” One complaint that Kenny commonly hears in his practice and has found echoed in the survey results is the sense of isolation that extreme wealth can engender. “Wealth can be a barrier to connecting with other people,” writes the spouse of a tech wizard who cashed in to the tune of $80 million. “Not feeling you should share some of the stressors in your life (‘Yeah, wouldn’t I like to have your problems’), awkwardness re: who should pay at a restaurant.” The poor-little-rich-kid retort is so obvious — and seemingly so sensible — that the rich themselves often internalize it, and as a result become uncomfortable in their interactions with the non-wealthy. Once people cross a certain financial threshold, they have a tendency to hang out with one another, to enjoy the company of other people who know that money relieves some burdens but not others. This can pose particular problems for those at the lower end of the extreme-wealth scale: someone, for instance, who has “only” (I use the word advisedly) $5 million or so may find himself socializing with economic “peers” who are in fact 20 times as wealthy, and feeling pressure to spend money at a comparable rate. GettyPerhaps that’s why, as Robert Frank notes in his 2007 book, Richistan, 20 percent of households with between $1 million and $10 million in assets in 2004 spent all their income — or more — in a frantic race to keep up with their newfound friends, the Gateses. “One of the saddest phrases I’ve heard,” Kenny says of his time counseling the wealthy, is when the heir to a fortune is told, “‘Honey, you’re never going to have to work.’” The announcement is often made, Kenny explains, by a rich grandparent to a grandchild — and it rarely sounds as good to the recipient as to the one delivering it. Work is what fills most people’s days, and it provides the context in which they interact with others. A life of worklessness, however financially comfortable, can easily become one of aimlessness, of estrangement from the world. The fact that most people imagine it would be paradise to never have to work does not make the experience any more pleasant in practice. Career advancement is the standard yardstick by which most people measure success, and without that yardstick, it’s not easy to assess whether one’s time is well spent. “Financial freedom can produce anxiety and hesitancy,” writes one respondent to the Boston College survey. “In my own life, I have been intimidated about my abilities because I inherited money.” If the rich do take jobs, they sometimes find that co-workers resent them on the grounds that they’re “taking away the jobs of people who need them.” The rich also leave jobs more quickly than others, for the simple reason that they can afford to do so. Karen Weisgerber, a senior adviser at the center who also works with Kenny at North Bridge, describes an heir she counseled who had earned an M.B.A. from a top-tier school and was an obviously intelligent man. He nonetheless moved from one high-tech job to another. “At some point, something would happen at each job that those who have to work for an income would learn to tolerate,” Weisgerber says. “And he’d just say, ‘I don’t want to deal with this.’ Eventually he had to say, ‘I don’t have a career.’” In other cases, wealthy workers find that their work is viewed as a charade. One wealthy survey respondent who worked in the nonprofit sector says she would feel insecure about her position if she resumed working. “If I decided to get a job in the field, I think I would have trouble being seen as a colleague and not a donor,” she writes. As a result, she feels unable to take part fully in the only profession for which she has trained. A similar kind of self-doubt afflicts some of the “sudden” millionaires in the survey, whose wealth arrived seemingly by chance. “I just happened to hit the jackpot by choosing to work for the right company at the right time I have never thought that I in any way earned this amount of wealth,” one writes. “I’m just now feeling like I’m getting the hang of it.” Just as wealth can aggravate, rather than alleviate, stresses surrounding work, so too can it complicate love, where Kenny says problems are “the rule and not the exception.” Despite the financial security a fortune affords, issues related to money cause the failure of many marriages and significant relationships. In the survey, one wealthy mother writes that she worries that the men in her daughters’ lives could feel “powerless,” and that “their role as provider has been usurped.” Wealthy people of both genders are wary of gold diggers — Does he love me or my money? — but at the same time fear that this wariness might make them mistrustful of genuine affection. Weisgerber describes a client who was handed a prenuptial agreement just two days before his wedding — a standard form, presented to anyone who married into his bride’s family. “It’s like marrying into the royal family,” the psychologist says, with its own rules and practices, to which the groom might be only a legally complicated footnote. One issue that Kenny says comes up frequently is the question of at what point in a relationship to reveal one’s wealth—a disclosure he makes sound as fraught as telling your date you have herpes. “When do you tell someone that you have got a huge amount of money?” he asks rhetorically. “If you tell them too soon, you are going to worry that they want you for your money. If you wait too long, can the person really trust you? “Freud was right,” Kenny concludes. “Love and work are the two things you have to do in life.” And great wealth, he says, often undermines both. But the overwhelming concern of the super-rich — mentioned by nearly every parent who participated in the survey — is their children. Many express relief that their kids’ education was assured, but are concerned that money might rob them of ambition. Having money “runs the danger of giving them a perverted view of the world,” one respondent writes. Another worries, “Money could mess them up — give them a sense of entitlement, prevent them from developing a strong sense of empathy and compassion.” Enormous wealth takes care of so many day-to-day concerns, that the remaining ones grow that much more frustrating. The rich “want their children to make wise choices,” says Schervish, “because that’s what they can’t control.” Kenny, whose counseling practice serves mostly inheritors, says parents notice the danger signs quickly, in many cases because they have dealt with the same experiences. “They don’t think their kids are moral midgets. They just know there are not a lot of guideposts out there, because the world thinks if you have all that money, you’ve got it made in the shade. And if you don’t have it made in the shade — what the hell’s the matter with you?” Many wealthy parents structure their children’s inheritances such that the money arrives only in discrete packets, timed to ensure that during their formative years they have no choice but to find a vocation. But Kenny hasn’t seen the strategy work, he says, because the children always know that the money is out there, and usually their friends do too. “We try to get our kids to do chores,” one survey respondent complains, but it’s hard to get them to mow the lawn when “we have an almost full-time gardener.” Even if parents succeed in setting up a trust to parcel out the inheritance according to guideposts — get a degree, get a job, raise a family, etc. — they run the risk of setting up bitter intergenerational feuds. As one survey respondent from a wealthy family explains, “I have grown up with a father who never wanted to give up control of his business but kept taunting me with the opportunity to step into his shoes.” His wife adds, “It has been difficult to feel financially independent when [my] spouse’s parents hold tight control over [our] children’s inheritance.” Flickr / Porto Bay Hotels And ResortsAs they get older, many children of privilege take either too many risks, because they know the consequences of failure are minimal, or too few, because they feel assured in their financial well-being. Kenny says they, like their parents, can grow bored with one line of work and make consequence-free shifts to other jobs — until finally they reach middle age and discover that they have put together the résumé of a dabbler and haven’t made the impact that they had hoped. “They get to be 50 years old,” says Kenny, “and all of a sudden they say to me, both in their love life and in their work life, ‘I have to stop hitting that reset button.’” Eventually, Schervish and Kenny say, most wealthy people discover the satisfactions of philanthropy. Havens, who designs and conducts the center’s surveys and statistical analyses on the patterns of wealth and philanthropy, notes that almost all of the respondents to the Boston College survey had family foundations or donor-advised funds. Excluding two unusually wealthy foundations, these respondents invested an average of $11 million in these funds, in addition to household giving. But the experience of giving away their wealth — in addition to being pleasurable and empowering — also helps teach the giver that money sometimes carries its burden with it, and can harm or unsettle a recipient if given without caution. Anyone who has ever been approached by a panhandler knows what it’s like to reach for one’s wallet but then hesitate, wondering whether giving to this person at this time is the right thing to do. That dilemma only grows more difficult as the wallet gets bigger. The survey offers lessons for the rest of us as well. Bob Kenny says it buttresses the observation he’s been making about the super-rich for years: that their wealth isn’t always worthy of envy, and is certainly not worth sacrificing one’s life to attain. “If we can get people just a little bit more informed, so they know that getting the $20 million or $200 million won’t necessarily bring them all that they’d hoped for, then maybe they’d concentrate instead on things that would make the world a better place and could help to make them truly happy,” Kenny says. “Don’t work too hard for money, because it isn’t going to get you much if you ignore everything else.” In their 1873 novel, The Gilded Age, Mark Twain and Charles Dudley Warner coined the nickname of an era and cataloged its excesses. But in one passage, they describe an untroubled, unwealthy family that had found a happy medium that many among the super-rich might envy: Having only riches enough to be able to gratify reasonable desires, and yet make their gratifications always a novelty and a pleasure, the family occupied that just mean in life which is so rarely attained, and still more rarely enjoyed without discontent. At its core, the survey underlines the fact that money may ease some worries, but others always remain. “Nobody has the excuse of ‘lack of money’ for not being at peace and living in integrity,” writes one survey respondent of his family, with a touch of bitterness. “If they choose to live otherwise, that’s their business.” If anything, the rich stare into the abyss a bit more starkly than the rest of us.We can always indulge in the thought that a little more money would make our lives happier — and in many cases it’s true. But the truly wealthy know that appetites for material indulgence are rarely sated. No yacht is so super, nor any wine so expensive, that it can soothe the soul or guarantee one’s children won’t grow up to be creeps. When the rich man takes his last sip of Château d’Yquem 1959, he tips back the wineglass to find at its bottom an unforeseen melancholy. Like Leontes in The Winter’s Tale, he notes in horror, “I have drunk, and seen the spider.” It is as terrifying a realization in Saint-Tropez as it is anywhere else. FREE AppDownload
KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - Shares in AirAsia fell 11.6 percent after one of its aircraft went missing in bad weather on Sunday on its way to Singapore from the Indonesian city of Surabaya. Shares of the Malaysia-based budget airline fell at the start of trade on Monday, after Indonesia resumed its search for the missing jetliner QZ8501 at first light on Monday. AirAsia fell as much as 12.9 percent to 2.56 ringgit at 0102 GMT, its lowest point since Nov. 28. The stock has gained 21.4 percent since the beginning of the year. Indonesia AirAsia is 49 percent owned by Malaysia-based budget carrier AirAsia, with local investors holding the rest. The AirAsia group, including affiliates in Thailand, the Philippines and India, has not had a crash since its Malaysian operations began in 2002.   (Reporting By Praveen Menon and Al-Zaquan Amer Hamzah; Editing by Paul Tait) FREE AppDownload
TOKYO (Reuters) - Asian stocks tip-toed higher on Monday, following fresh gains on Wall Street, while the euro wallowed near 28-month lows versus the dollar on nervousness ahead of a vote in the Greek parliament that could result in snap elections. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan &lt;.MIAPJ0000PUS&gt; edged up 0.1 percent. Tokyo's Nikkei &lt;.N225&gt; climbed 0.4 percent and Australian shares &lt;.AXJO&gt; rose 0.6 percent. The Dow &lt;.DJI&gt; and S&amp;P 500 &lt;.SPX&gt; both closed at new record highs on Friday after a broad rally. The euro stood little changed at $1.2173 &lt;eur=&gt;, not far from its lowest since August 2012, at $1.2165, hit the previous week. Greece faces a vote in parliament later on Monday that will decide whether the country's leading coalition can gather enough votes to elect a president. If it fails, markets are concerned it may trigger a snap election that could bring the leftwing opposition Syriza party to power and derail an international bailout. Former European Commissioner Stavros Dimas, the candidate for the leading coalition, needs to garner 180 votes in parliament to become president. If Dimas is elected, the euro could bounce on relief as Greece can continue negotiations with its creditors, said Masafumi Yamamoto, a market strategist at Praevidentia Strategy in Tokyo. "On the other hand the euro could fall towards $1.21 if the 180 votes are not secured, as the market will ponder the risk of the leftwing Syriza party, which is against fiscal reconstruction, taking power after a snap election next year," he said. The dollar was up 0.1 percent at 120.420 yen &lt;jpy=&gt;, remaining in sight of a 7-1/2 year high of 121.86 hit earlier in the month, but lacking enough momentum to challenge that peak. U.S. crude oil rebounded on renewed tensions in Libya. A fire caused by fighting at one of Libya's main export terminals has destroyed more than two days of the country's oil production, officials said on Sunday, as clashes escalated between factions battling for control of the OPEC member nation. U.S. crude rose 1.5 percent to $55.53 a barrel after shedding 2 percent on Friday.   (Editing by Alex Richardson) FREE AppDownload
BI IntelligenceA selection of payments companies in different categories. This is not a comprehensive list. The payments industry had a huge year in 2014 and it's showing no sign of slowing down. On the one hand tech giants like Amazon and Apple released new products that affirmed their long-term payments ambitions (Apple Pay and Amazon Local Register). On the other hand startups such as Stripe and ShopKeep continued to carve out market share, challenging older players like PayPal and VeriFone.  Understanding this complex and rapidly evolving space can be challenging. In a new explainer, BI Intelligence offers a high-level look at the payments industry — how it functions, who the key players are, and the trends shaping the industry. We start by explaining payment-card processing, since the majority of consumer payments and transaction volume flow through this system. From there we take a look at how consumers' move to mobile devices is changing the way we pay, and which players stand to benefit. Access the Full Report By Signing Up For A Risk-Free Trial Membership Today &gt;&gt; Here are some of the key takeaways: In full, the report: For full access to all BI Intelligence's charts and data on the Payments Industry, sign up for a free trial. Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload

Wikimedia CommonsUntil now, we couldn't find a single major Wall Street strategist that was predicting US stocks would fall in 2015. Of the strategists followed by Business Insider, the most bearish have been Goldman Sachs, Credit Suisse, and Barclays who all see the S&amp;P 500 topping out at 2,100 in 2015. That's higher than today's levels. But Societe Generale has come out with a contrarian view: US stocks are going to slide in 2015. "Since 1875, we have never seen the S&amp;P rise for seven calendar years in a row, so an eighth year would seem highly unlikely," Societe Generale's Roland Kaloyan said in a Dec. 17 note to clients. "We assume that the S&amp;P 500 will finish the year slightly down as the strengthening of the US dollar and the new tightening cycle offset the strong US GDP growth already priced-in at the start of the year." @finansakrobat tweeted this map summarizing the firms outlook for global stocks in 2015. The red map of the US with "S&amp;P 500: -1%" really sticks out. Societe Generale However, Kaloyan is feeling positive about other countries in Asia and Europe. The firm is expecting stocks soaring in Hong Kong, Japan, Taiwan, and several European countries including Spain. FREE AppDownload
Gas is flowing again from Russia to Ukraine, but blackouts have hit factories and homes. Ukraine’s prime minister, Arseniy Yatsenyuk, says Ukraine’s independence is compromised by its energy dependence on Russia. Mykhailo Gonchar of the Centre for Global Studies in Kiev claims that in its battle in Ukraine, Russia has opened an energy front where it has big advantages—thanks to Ukraine’s own failings. Until the 1970s Ukraine powered the Soviet Union. But since independence in 1991, inefficiency and falling production have left it reliant on Russia. The problems are crystallised in Naftogaz, a state-controlled gas giant with a bigger budget deficit than Ukraine. Ukraine has spent $6.4 billion keeping the company afloat this year, much of it going to Russia’s Gazprom. After Naftogaz was created in 1998, it soon became a fount of corruption. Artificially low prices and patchy metering offer ample pickings. Opaque finances and central control over extraction, transport, storage and sales allow rent-seekers to act with impunity. Yevgeny Bakulin, who led Naftogaz under President Viktor Yanukovych, is under investigation for corruption. Yet he has won a seat in parliament for the Opposition Bloc led by Yuri Boiko, another former Naftogaz official. The new energy officials, including Naftogaz’s 36-year-old boss, Andriy Kobolev, are an improvement. Mr Kobolev is opening up the company’s books. He has secured reverse-flow supplies from Slovakia, a deal for imports from Norway and an international loan to refurbish ageing pipelines. But Ukraine’s energy oligarchs will complain, and some wonder if Mr Kobolev has the strength to take them on. Prices need to be raised to market levels, with subsidies only for the neediest. Energy conglomerates, including Naftogaz, must be broken up. Ukraine has to do this both to balance its budget and as a member of the European Energy Community treaty. Mr Kobolev argues for shock therapy. “It’s better to cut off the dog’s tail all at once,” he says. This requires politicians to be “brave enough” to deliver unpleasant news, which Mr Yatsenyuk promises to do. Yet Mr Yatsenyuk has ducked hard decisions on energy. Inflation ate up an initial price increase demanded by the IMF. Rather than putting up prices again, Ukraine pushed up taxes on private producers. Mr Yatsenyuk told big manufacturers to purchase gas exclusively from Naftogaz, strengthening its monopoly under the pretext of increasing revenue. REUTERS/Julian Smith/PoolAustralia's Prime Minister Tony Abbott (R) talks with Ukraine's President Petro Poroshenko after the latter presented him with a book, during their meeting in Melbourne December 11, 2014.“They robbed Peter to pay Putin,” says one foreign diplomat, saying this amounts to “two own goals in a game they can’t afford to lose.” A third was a plan to import coal from South Africa. The deal, meant to offset disruption in supplies from eastern Ukraine, ended in another scandal over the coal’s quality. With separatists in Ukraine’s east controlling the biggest coal mines, Ukraine has been forced to buy coal and electricity directly from Russia. Otherwise power shortages could have been devastating, a fact Russia underlined by holding up a coal train at the border. Ukraine’s new energy minister, Volodymyr Demchishin, is hoping to retrieve coal from storehouses in the besieged city of Debaltseve. Meanwhile Ukraine could raise output at its nuclear power stations—if they are safe. An emergency shutdown knocked out a plant in southern Ukraine last month, awakening ghosts of Chernobyl. Worse, Ukraine imports most nuclear fuel from Russia, despite increased co-operation with Westinghouse, an American firm. And Ukraine relies on Russia to store nuclear waste. As Mr Gonchar notes, with so many pressure points, the Kremlin does not need troops to “strangle Kiev”. FREE AppDownload
When it comes to choosing a new smartphone, the decision for most people often comes down to Samsung versus Apple. To help you decide, here are nine things Samsung's Galaxy Note 4 does better than Apple's iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. Produced by Will Wei Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, Nov. 5, 2010.US presidents don't usually talk about stocks. But when they do, everyone listens. Because, who wouldn't love to remind everyone that the President of the United States, like us, is terrible at making stock market calls. However, it turns out that President Barack Obama made one of the most perfectly timed market calls in the history of market calls. In a July note to clients, Goldman Sachs' David Kostin remembers that time Obama talked about stocks. From the note: Some investors may remember Obama’s previous equity valuation comment from March 3, 2009 when the S&amp;P 500 traded at 696: ”On the other hand, what you're now seeing is profit and earnings ratios are starting to get to the point where buying stocks is a potentially good deal if you've got a long-term perspective on it.” Since his observation, the S&amp;P 500 has soared by 185% and this week reached a new all-time high of 1988. March 3 was six days before the S&amp;P 500 hit an intraday low of 666. This was a time when naysayers were saying Obama's radicalism was killing the stock market. On Tuesday, the S&amp;P closed at a record 2,082. That's a solid 200% gain in a little under 6 years. That was a pretty extraordinary call. Yahoo Finance So, what now? Unfortunately, we don't pay Obama to advise on the tactical asset allocation decisions for our investment portfolios. He did, however, offer some long-term wisdom during a July interview with CNBC's Steve Liesman. “My estimation is you've got a lot of savvy investors out there," he said. "You got people who recognize that what goes up can come down as well. I'll leave it up to them to make determinations about whether valuations and stock prices are too high. I'm more concerned about the day-to-day fundamentals. And if we get those fundamentals right, then I'm pretty confident that we can do very well in the next decade.” FREE AppDownload
Big stock market sell-offs happen all of the time. We've seen two violent sell-offs in the second half of 2014. The first came when the S&amp;P 500 quickly tumbled 9.8% from its then all-time high of 2,019 on Sept. 19 to as low as 1,820 on Oct. 15. The second came when the S&amp;P plunged 5.1% from 2,079 ion Dec. 5 to 1,972 on Dec. 16. And yet, the S&amp;P recovered those losses and then some. Importantly, these big sell-offs occur during years when the markets head higher. Even the Black Monday crash of 1987 was part of a bull market. "Despite average intra-year drops of 14.2%, annual returns [have been] positive in 26 of 34 years," JP Morgan Funds' David Kelly said. Kelly offers this chart of intra-year declines that we think every investor should pin to their walls. Bottom line: Sell-offs happen. And sometimes they're big. But they're normal, and they're no reason to panic. JP Morgan Asset Management FREE AppDownload
Cesar Millan gave his last $100 to the coyote that helped him jump the US-Mexico border. Three years later he had a dog-walking company and was on the road to expand. Millan talked to Bryan Elliott of Behind The Brand about being illegal with no English and doing business in America. WATCH MORE: The Full Interview With Cesar Millan Behind The Brand takes you behind the scenes at some of the coolest brands as well as talk with world-class thought leaders and entrepreneurs so you can get an inside look at how they do it. Follow Behind The Brand: On YouTube Follow host Bryan Elliott: On Twitter
Matthew DeBord/Business InsiderDriving an electric car confers a badge of greenery, or so the marketing departments of their makers would have you believe. Yet a report which analyses the life cycle of car emissions (ie, all the way from those created by the mining of materials for batteries, via the ones from the production of fuel and the generation of electricity, to the muck that actually comes out of the exhaust) presents a rather different picture. A battery-powered car recharged with electricity generated by coal-fired power stations, it found, is likely to cause more than three times as many deaths from pollution as a conventional petrol-driven vehicle. Even a battery car running on the average mix of electrical power generated in America is much more hazardous than the conventional alternative. Christopher Tessum, Jason Hill and Julian Marshall of the University of Minnesota have just published this study in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. They estimate how levels of fine particulate matter and ground-level ozone--two important constituents of air pollution, which kills more than 100,000 people a year in America--would change if each of 11 ways of powering a car were to be responsible for 10% of the vehicle-miles expected to be driven in America in 2020. The EconomistIt was no surprise that electric cars whose batteries were topped up from wind, solar or hydroelectric sources came out cleanest, causing 231 putative deaths over the course of a year, compared with 878 for petrol cars. Electric cars recharged with power from natural-gas-fired stations were also a lot less lethal than petrol-driven ones, with 439 deaths. But if those same electric cars were recharged ultimately by coal, they would be responsible, according to the model, for just over 3,000 deaths. Biofuels also caused more health problems than petrol. But diesel, which is generating concern about pollution in parts of Europe, where it is a more popular fuel than in America, was marginally cleaner than petrol. This is because the Minnesota model assumes for all cars that present and future emission-control technologies will be more widely used in 2020, especially particulate filters which have a marked effect on cleaning diesel exhausts. Diesel cars also have better fuel economy than petrol-driven ones. Overall, the research shows that electric cars are cleaner than those that rely on internal-combustion engines only if the power used to charge them is also clean. That is hardly a surprise, but the magnitude of the difference is. How green electric cars really are, then, will depend mainly on where they are driven. In France, which obtains more than half its power from nuclear stations, they look like a good bet. In China--which is keen on electric cars, but produces some 80% of its electricity from coal--rather less so. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
facebook.com/PHDRooftopNYPH-D at the Dream Hotel DowntownNew Years Eve is pretty much the most decadent holiday begin with, but what makes doing it NYC special is that every year the city's bars, hotels and clubs are in a competition to out-do each other (and whatever they themselves did the year before). So to get a sense of the madness, Business Insider did a quick fly-around to some city hotspots to see what they came up with to make this New Year's more luxurious than the last. If you haven't made plans yet, maybe this will give you some inspiration. At the Viceroy Hotel you'll be able to party with a "champagne butler," watch fireworks on the rooftop, and ring in the New Year with a truffle and caviar-heavy four-course meal. The evening will start at the hotel's luxurious suite 57, which will be fully stock with champagne: Dom Perignon, served by the butler at your service all night long. FoViceroyThe view from the Viceroy Hotel, Midtownllowing a round or two of clinking flutes, The Viceroy has set up a sumptuous 4-course meal including lobster agnolotti, white truffles, roasted duck breast, Wagyu strip steak in red wine sauce and bone marrow au gratin. After all that, you can make your way up to a private oasis on the rooftop, were you can party all the way into the early morning while watching the fireworks over Central Park.  If you want to know what's up at night in NYC, it's always a good idea to ask the folks at Strategic Group. They manage venues like Marquee, The Electric Room and PH-D in The Dream Hotel Downtown. It is their responsibility to ensure that these spots please partiers from all over the globe, and in the last few years competition has gotten more and more intense.  You see, several years ago, everyone used to run for the warm weather come the holiday season. But now, "New York's become more of a destination than in the past," Strategic Group's Jonathan Schwartz told Business Insider. Tables at PH-D start at $4,000 and end with a $30,000 table called the 'Living the Dream' package. It comes with 18 Bottles of Belvedere Vodka and 18 Bottles of Perrier Jouet Nuit Blanche Rose for you and 25 of your closest, luckiest friends. You'll have the spot's epic view of the Empire State building to top it all off. Of course, that's nothing compared to Marquee, where a center table in front of the DJ will cost you $50,000. It puts you in the middle of all the action, after all. "What we're doing at Marquee," Schwartz told Business Insider, "Vegas and Miami have been doing. So this is something new — for New York to be doing the same thing." The celebrations begin on the 24th, continue on the 27th and 30th — featuring some of the top DJ talent. And on the 31st, Sebastian Ingrosso (of Swedish House Mafia fame) will be headlining New Years. "Marquee is going to be that post ball drop spot where all the DJs will go to hang out after," Schwartz told BI. So consider that.   FREE AppDownload
 Tom Enders stared at the phone on his desk as it began to ring. The Airbus boss had been expecting a call to his office in Toulouse. It was Tim Clark, chief executive of Dubai-based airline Emirates, the biggest buyer of the planemaker’s A380 “superjumbo”. Clark was angry. He wanted to know why Airbus finance director Harald Wilhelm had just raised the prospect of the death of the A380. The aircraft cost $25bn (£16bn) to develop, but it has struggled to chalk up the large orders Airbus had envisioned, at $440m each. So far, it has just 318 orders, compared with the 1,200 that Airbus thought airlines needed in that size category – it carries around 550 passengers – when it began marketing in 2000. Wilhelm sparked panic among Airbus customers and shareholders when he told analysts it would break even on the aircraft up until 2018, “if we would do something on the product, or even if we would discontinue the product”. The indiscretion let slip an internal debate at Airbus about the future of the world’s largest jetliner. However, it was the first time the Franco-German manufacturer had publicly admitted it was contemplating pulling the rug on the programme. “I am not particularly happy, as you can imagine,” Clark fumed. “We are on the hook for this plane. I get pretty miffed when we have put so much at stake.” Emirates has 55 of the giant planes in service and has placed orders for a further 85. The carrier accounts for 40% of the total orders for the aircraft, so any squeak from Clark will reverberate around Toulouse. Airbus has attempted to soothe fears about killing off its marquee plane by saying it was more likely to modify the aircraft and launch a model with more fuel-efficient engines, known as the A380Neo (new engine option), or a bigger “stretch” version. “The entire Airbus top management continues to believe strongly in the market prospects for the A380, but any investment requires a sound business case, which we will continue to study.” REUTERS/Tobias Schwarz  Since the plane’s first commercial flight with Singapore Airlines in 2007, Airbus has struggled to sell the A380. The global economic downturn hit airlines hard, forcing many out of business. Those that survived have turned to using smaller, twin-jet models that are more fuel efficient and can fly to more airports. One industry source said: “We still haven’t come out of recession and for companies to put major assets like this on the balance sheet is a big ask.” The A380 works best when flown on popular routes, or from capacity-constrained airports, such as Heathrow. But many airlines have struggled to make the investment profitable. Alexandre de Juniac, chief executive of Air France-KLM, aims to cancel the last two of a dozen A380s the airline has on order and swap them for smaller models. He said recently: “It’s an excellent plane but it only works for the right destinations.” This year looks like it will be the first since the A380 entered service without a new airline customer. The only buyer has been a leasing company that has yet to line up a single carrier to take any of the 20 planes it ordered. James Hogan, chief executive of Etihad, this month ruled out further A380 purchases as he took delivery of the airline’s first “superjumbo”. His frank assessment that Etihad would not be affected by the ending of A380 production added weight to fears that Airbus has struggled to find any more buyers. REUTERS/Tobias Schwarz Airbus is suing Japan’s Skymark Airlines after canceling an order for six A380s amid fears that it would not receive payment from the airline, while Virgin Atlantic and Air Austral are among the carriers increasingly unlikely to proceed with orders. Clark is baffled by the way rival airlines use the A380, noting the odd seating configurations that some use. Emirates is using the plane as its main jet because air travel is forecast to double in the next 10 years to 7bn passengers annually. So it is convinced that airports and airlines will need huge jets like the A380 to cope with the surge in demand. “It’s a great aircraft,” Clark told Airlineratings.com. “If airlines don’t believe they can fill an A380, their business model is wrong.” He said if a new model was built it would be as economical to fly as the Boeing 777X long-haul jet, which is being introduced in 2018. “We will buy 140 of the A380Neos,” he said. “As long as I am around, I am going to continue to fight the battle for the A380. The world needs [this aircraft].” He described the plane as a “passenger magnet” and reckons the five that Emirates operates each day between Dubai and Heathrow are 95% full. While the Dubai carrier is loath to see the A380 cancelled, perhaps even more is at stake for Britain’s economy. Any move to kill off the “queen of the skies” is sure to cause anguish at Airbus’s two main British plants. All of the wings for its planes are designed in Filton, Bristol, and assembled at Broughton in north Wales. Broughton’s new north factory is one of the biggest in Britain and contains a huge, automated rivet gun which is five stories high. It takes this giant industrial stapler 10 days to punch 750,000 rivets into precise locations on both wings. It would take more than a month for two teams of 20 people on each wing to do the same job. The wings are the most complicated and most important part of the plane and there are thousands of well-paid, highly skilled British jobs that rely on the work. “There’s a lot hanging on the future of this programme for Britain,” an industry source said. However, insiders suggested that Wilhelm’s gaffe and Clark’s angry response had refocused Airbus’s top team on sorting out the A380, which may give the programme a shot in the arm. REUTERS/Chip East “What is happening over there?” he fumed. “I would like a first-hand understanding on where it is going.” Whatever Airbus decides, some believe the A380 is already destined for the history books. Richard Aboulafia, aviation analyst at Teal Group and a long-time critic of the giant jetliner, said the fresh crop of wide bodied, twin-engine planes coming to the market signalled the death of the A380. “I don’t think it will last for more than a few years into the next decade,” Aboulafia said. “The quicker Airbus lets go, the quicker it can devote its marketing efforts to other products.” ¦ The Airbus A380 made its first flight on 27 April 2005 and entered commercial service in October 2007 with Singapore Airlines. ¦ It is the world’s biggest jetliner at 73m long, 24.45m high and with a wingspan of almost 80m. ¦ Each of the A380’s giant wings, which are designed and made in Britain, can hold up to 125 tonnes of fuel. This gives it a flight range of 15,700 km, or enough juice to fly non-stop from Dallas to Sydney. ¦It takes 3,600 liters of paint to cover the 3,100 sq m (33,000 sq ft) exterior of the aircraft. ¦There is 530km of wiring in each A380 aircraft. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk   FREE AppDownload
When companies set out to design logos to brand their products, they often go above and beyond to create recognizable and memorable graphics. Over and over again we see examples of corporate logos with hidden visual messages buried inside. Produced by Matt Johnston Follow BI Video: On Facebook
© AFP/File Kirill KudryavtsevFile photo of passengers waiting in the transit zone in Sheremetyevo airport terminal in MoscowMoscow (AFP) - Their international competitors may be cheering tumbling oil prices, but the collapse in the ruble has meant major financial turbulence for Russian airlines who have expenses in foreign currencies. The ruble has slumped by 40 percent this year against the dollar and euro, mostly due to crude oil prices falling by half in the past six months as Russia's economy is heavily dependent upon oil exports. As jet fuel accounts for upwards of a quarter of the cost for flights, most airlines are set to see a boost to earnings. Russian airlines also stand to benefit, but that is expected to pale in comparison to the double whammy resulting from the drop in the value of the ruble. First, traffic on their most profitable international routes has dropped as Russians stopped travelling as their purchasing power has been eroded, not to mention ticket prices being jacked up twice by 10 percent. Second, the airlines have considerable costs in foreign currencies -- mostly aircraft leases -- which have nearly doubled in ruble terms as the currency has slumped. According to Deutsche Bank, Russia's leading airline Aeroflot earns 90 percent of its revenue in rubles while 60 percent of its costs are in foreign currencies. "The situation is very serious," said Oleg Panteleyev, the editor-in-chief of the specialist website AviaPort. "The result is obvious: as a drop in traffic is inevitable, they must return planes to lessors, reduce foreign currency costs and lower the number of planes and flights," he told AFP. With traffic rising by 15 to 20 percent annually in recent years, Russian airlines have leased and ordered new planes from Airbus and Boeing to retire their ageing fleet of gas-guzzling Russian aircraft. Uncertainty has hovered for weeks over the third-largest Russian airline, Utair. Unable to repay some of its debts, Alfa Bank has been trying in court to seize its aircraft. Then this past week doubts began to surface about the finances of number two airline Transaero, which boasts a fleet of more than 100 mostly Boeing aircraft. TASS news agency reported that it had appealed to the government for help to avoid having to suspend flights. Even if Transaero denounced the report as an attempt to destabilise it by competitors, the possibility of thousands of Russian tourists stranded abroad as happened this past summer when a number of travel agencies went bust was enough to prod the government into quick action. Anxious to show it was moving to contain the effects of the currency crisis, the government promised to help airlines by subsidising domestic routes and providing loan guarantees to ensure airlines had access to funds. On Wednesday Transaero was granted a loan guarantee of 9 billion rubles (140 million euros, $170 million). The same day Alfa Bank said it was temporarily suspending, "at the request of the government", its legal action against Utair in order to avoid disruptions to flights during the upcoming holidays. The government has a clear short-term goal, according to Panteleyev: "the airlines must transport all the passengers over the holidays". Russia nearly shuts down at the beginning of the year as most people take holiday between the New Year and the Russian Orthodox Christmas, celebrated this year on Thursday January 7. Panteleyev said "obtaining loans is indispensable... to pay for jet fuel, airport fees and salaries, but it isn't sufficient to survive." With the Russian central bank expecting the country's economy to contract by nearly 5 percent if oil prices remain at current levels and for there to be no recovery before 2017, there won't be an easy out for airlines. Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich warned airlines that the government aid would not help unless they optimised their fleet and routes and cut costs. Their owners would also have to pump money into them, he said. Alexei Khazbiyev, a transportation specialist with the magazine Expert, also sees dark clouds ahead for Russian airlines. "Next year, the traffic on international flights will continue to drop and the airlines will reduce their number of flights," he said. Khazbiyev estimated that a majority of Russian airlines will lose money and several smaller regional companies may go bust, as happened in 2008-2009. Air transport expert Elizabeta Kuznetsova wrote in a recent commentary in the business daily Kommersant that even if the state measures "soften the pain" for airlines there risks being a "complete upheaval in the market" in 2015. FREE AppDownload
BERLIN (Reuters) - Growth in Germany, Europe's biggest economy, could be better than expected next year and the situation in Europe is not as bad as many people think, the president of Germany's Bundesbank told a newspaper on Sunday. In an interview with the Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung, Jens Weidmann, a member of the European Central Bank's Governing Council, also reiterated his opposition to ECB plans to buy sovereign bonds. The ECB is watching carefully how a recent drop in oil prices will affect euro zone inflation, far below its target of just below 2 percent, and standing ready to do more to keep the region from slipping into deflation. "As things are at the moment and if oil prices remain this low, inflation will be lower than expected, but growth will be better," Weidmann was quoted as saying. The Bundesbank this month halved its growth forecast for Germany to 1.0 percent for next year. It also cut its prediction for 2014 growth to 1.4 percent from 1.9 percent in June. "The situation in Europe isn't as bad as some people believe," added Weidmann. Having largely exhausted its policy toolkit with the key interest rate at a record lows of 0.05 percent, broad-based purchases of sovereign bonds — also known as quantitative easing (QE) — are seen as the ECB's last resort to revive the economy. But some ECB policymakers have reservations. Weidmann is the most vocal opponent of such a step in the 24-member Governing Council, concerned the central bank could end up bankrolling troubled euro zone governments and lose sight of its mandate to keep prices stable. "(With low oil prices) An economic stimulus program has been handed to us, why should we add to that with monetary policy?" said Weidmann, adding that pressure from financial markets should not determine the ECB's moves on buying up sovereign bonds. "I am irritated by one question dominating the recent public debate: when will you finally buy?" said Weidmann. (Reporting by Madeline Chambers) FREE AppDownload
